

Star Wars: Darth Plagueis 
Contents
Cover
Title Page Copyright Dedication
Prologue
Part One: Enlistment - 67–65 Years Before
the Battle of Yavin
1: The Underworld
2: The Inner Landscape
3: Woebegone
4: The Meaning of Death
5: Homecoming
6: The Hunters’ Moon
7: There Where They Used to Stand
8: Victims of Their Own Device
9: Untapped Reserves
10: The Cycle of Violence
11: Avatar of Mortality
12: Seduced by the Dark Side of the Force
Part Two: Apprenticed to Power - 54–52 BBY
13: Riders on the Storm
14: The Shape of His Shadow
15: Quantum Being
16: Bold as Love
17: Days of Wine and Impropriety
18: Artful Dodging
19: The Trials
20: The Canted Circle
21: Investiture
Part Three: Mastery - 34–32 BBY
22: Ordinary Beings
23: Under the Midnight Sun
24: Sith’ari
25: The Discreet Charm of the Meritocracy
26: Their Baser Nature
27: Calibrations
28: Chain of Command
29: The Force Strikes Back
30: Taking the Future from the Now
Epilogue

A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away….
PROLOGUE
A tremor took hold of the planet. Sprung from death, it unleashed itself in a powerful wave,
at once burrowing deep into the world’s core and radiating
through its saccharine atmosphere to shake the stars
themselves. At the quake’s epicenter stood Sidious, one
elegant hand vised on the burnished sill of an expansive
translucency, a vessel filled suddenly to bursting, the Force
so strong within him that he feared he might disappear into
it, never to return. But the moment didn’t constitute an
ending so much as a true beginning, long overdue; it was
less a transformation than an intensification—a gravitic
shift. A welter of voices, near and far, present and from eons
past, drowned his thoughts. Raised in praise, the voices
proclaimed his reign and cheered the inauguration of a new
order. Yellow eyes lifted to the night sky, he saw the
trembling stars flare, and in the depth of his being he felt the
power of the dark side anoint him. Slowly, almost reluctantly, he came back to himself, his
gaze settling on his manicured hands. Returned to the
present, he took note of his rapid breathing, while behind
him the room labored to restore order. Air scrubbers
hummed—costly wall tapestries undulating in the
summoned breeze. Prized carpets sealed their fibers
against the spread of spilled fluids. The droid shuffled in
obvious confliction. Sidious pivoted to take in the disarray:
antique furniture overturned; framed artwork askew. As if a whirlwind had swept through. And facedown on the floor lay
a statue of Yanjon, one of four law-giving sages of Dwartii. A piece Sidious had secretly coveted. Also sprawled there, Plagueis: his slender limbs splayed
and elongated head turned to one side. Dressed in finery,
as for a night on the town. And now dead. Or was he?
Uncertainty rippled through Sidious, rage returning to his
eyes. A tremor of his own making, or one of forewarning?
Was it possible that the wily Muun had deceived him?
Had Plagueis unlocked the key to immortality, and survived
after all? Never mind that it would constitute a petty move
for one so wise—for one who had professed to place the Grand Plan above all else. Had Plagueis become
ensnared in a self-spun web of jealousy and
possessiveness, victim of his own engineering, his own
foibles?
If he hadn’t been concerned for his own safety, Sidious might have pitied him. Wary of approaching the corpse of his former Master, he
called on the Force to roll the aged Muun over onto his
back. From that angle Plagueis looked almost as he had when Sidious first met him, decades earlier: smooth,
hairless cranium; humped nose, with its bridge flattened as
if from a shock-ball blow and its sharp tip pressed almost to
his upper lip; jutting lower jaw; sunken eyes still brimming with menace—a physical characteristic rarely encountered
in a Muun. But then Plagueis had never been an ordinary
Muun, nor an ordinary being of any sort. Sidious took care, still reaching out with the Force. On
closer inspection, he saw that Plagueis’s already cyanotic
flesh was smoothing out, his features relaxing.
Faintly aware of the whir of air scrubbers and sounds of
the outside world infiltrating the luxurious suite, he
continued the vigil; then, in relief, he pulled himself up to his
full height and let out his breath. This was no Sith trick. Not
an instance of feigning death, but one of succumbing to its
cold embrace. The being who had guided him to power was gone. Wry amusement narrowed his eyes.
The Muun might have lived another hundred years
unchanged. He might have lived forever had he succeeded
fully in his quest. But in the end—though he could save
others from death—he had failed to save himself. A sense of supreme accomplishment puffed Sidious’s
chest, and his thoughts unreeled. Well, then, that wasn’t nearly as bad as we thought it might be …
Rarely did events play out as imagined, in any case. The
order of future events was transient. In the same way that
the past was reconfigured by selective memory, future
events, too, were moving targets. One could only act on
instinct, grab hold of an intuited perfect moment, and spring
into action. One heartbeat late and the universe would have
recomposed itself, no imposition of will sufficient to forestall
the currents. One could only observe and react. Surprise was the element absent from any periodic table. A
keystone element; a missing ingredient. The means by which the Force amused itself. A reminder to all sentient
beings that some secrets could never be unlocked. Confident that the will of the dark side had been done, he
returned to the suite’s window wall.
Two beings in a galaxy of countless trillions, but what had
transpired in the suite would affect the lives of all of them. Already the galaxy had been shaped by the birth of one,
and henceforth would be reshaped by the death of the
other. But had the change been felt and recognized
elsewhere? Were his sworn enemies aware that the Force
had shifted irrevocably? Would it be enough to rouse them
from self-righteousness? He hoped not. For now the work
of vengeance could begin in earnest. His eyes sought and found an ascending constellation of
stars, one of power and consequence new to the sky,
though soon to be overwhelmed by dawn’s first light. Low in
the sky over the flatlands, visible only to those who knew
where and how to look, it ushered in a bold future. To some
the stars and planets might seem to be moving as ever,
destined to align in configurations calculated long before
their fiery births. But in fact the heavens had been
perturbed, tugged by dark matter into novel alignments. In
his mouth, Sidious tasted the tang of blood; in his chest, he
felt the monster rising, emerging from shadowy depths and
contorting his aspect into something fearsome just short of
revealing itself to the world.
The dark side had made him its property, and now he made the dark side his. Breathless, not from exertion but from the sudden
inspiration of power, he let go of the sill and allowed the monster to writhe through his body like an unbroken beast
of range or prairie. Had the Force ever been so strong in anyone?
Sidious had never learned how Plagueis’s own Master
had met his end. Had he died at Plagueis’s hand? Had
Plagueis, too, experienced a similar exultation on
becoming a sole Sith Lord? Had the beast of the end time
risen then to peek at the world it was to inhabit, knowing its
release was imminent?
He raised his gaze to the ecliptic. The answers were out
there, coded in light, speeding through space and time.
Liquid fire coursing through him, visions of past and future
riffling through his mind, he opened himself to the
reconfigured galaxy, as if in an effort to peel away the
decades …

1: THE UNDERWORLD
Forty-seven standard years before the harrowing reign of
Emperor Palpatine, Bal’demnic was nothing more than an
embryonic world in the Outer Rim’s Auril sector, populated
by reptilian sentients who expressed as little tolerance for
outsiders as they did for one another. Decades later the
planet would have a part to play in galactic events, its own wink of historical notoriety, but in those formative years that
presaged the Republic’s ineluctable slide into decadence
and turmoil, Bal’demnic was of interest only to
xenobiologists and cartographers. It might even have
escaped the notice of Darth Plagueis, for whom remote worlds held a special allure, had his Master, Tenebrous, not
discovered something special about the planet.
“Darth Bane would appreciate our efforts,” the Sith
Master was telling his apprentice as they stood side by
side in the crystalline cave that had drawn them across the
stars. A Bith, Tenebrous was as tall as Plagueis and nearly as
cadaverously thin. To human eyes, his bilious complexion might have made him appear as haggard as the pallid
Muun, but in fact both beings were in robust health. Though
they conversed in Basic, each was fluent in the other’s
native language.
“Darth Bane’s early years,” Plagueis said through his
transpirator mask. “Carrying on the ancestral business, as
it were.” Behind the faceplate of his own mask, Tenebrous’s
puckered lips twitched in disapproval. The breathing device
looked absurdly small on his outsized cleft head, and the
convexity of the mask made the flat disks of his lidless eyes
look like close-set holes in his pinched face.
“Bane’s seminal years,” he corrected. Plagueis weathered the gentle rebuke. He had been
apprenticed to Tenebrous for as many years as the
average human might live, and still Tenebrous never failed
to find fault when he could.
“What more appropriate way for us to close the circle
than by mimicking the Sith’ari’s seminal efforts,” Tenebrous
continued. “We weave ourselves into the warp and weft of
the tapestry he created.” Plagueis kept his thoughts to himself. The aptly named
Darth Bane, who had redefined the Sith by limiting their
number and operating from concealment, had mined
cortosis as a youth on Apatros long before embracing the
tenets of the dark side. In the thousand years since his
death, Bane had become deified; the powers attributed to
him, legendary. And indeed what more appropriate place
for his disciples to complete the circle, Plagueis told
himself, than in profound obscurity, deep within an
escarpment that walled an azure expanse of Bal’demnic’s Northern Sea.
The two Sith were outfitted in environment suits that
protected them from scorching heat and noxious
atmosphere. The cave was cross-hatched by scores of
enormous crystals that resembled glowing lances thrust
every which way into a trick chest by a stage magician. A
recent seismic event had tipped the landmass, emptying
the labyrinthine cave system of mineral-rich waters, but the magma chamber that had kept the waters simmering for millions of years still heated the humid air to temperatures
in excess of what even Tenebrous and Plagueis could
endure unaided. Close at hand sat a stubby treddroid
tasked with monitoring the progress of a mining probe that was sampling a rich vein of cortosis ore at the bottom of a
deep shaft. A fabled ore, some called it—owing to its
scarcity, but even more for its intrinsic ability to diminish the
effectiveness of the Jedi lightsaber. For that reason, the
Jedi Order had gone to great lengths to restrict mining and
refinement of the ore. If not the bane of the Order’s
existence, cortosis was a kind of irritant, a challenge to
their weapon’s reputation for fearsome invincibility.
It was to Tenebrous’s credit that the Sith had learned of
Bal’demnic’s rich lodes before the Jedi, who by means of
an agreement with the Republic Senate had first claim to all
discoveries, as they had with Adegan crystals and Forcesensitive younglings of all species. But Tenebrous and the
generations of Sith Masters who had preceded him were
privy to covert data gleaned by vast networks of informants
the Senate and the Jedi knew nothing about, including mining survey teams and weapons manufacturers.
“Based on the data I am receiving,” the treddroid intoned,
“eighty-two percent of the ore is capable of being purified
into weapons-grade cortosis shield.” Plagueis looked at Tenebrous, who returned a nod of
satisfaction. “The percentage is consistent with what I was
told to expect.”
“By whom, Master?”
“Of no consequence,” Tenebrous said. Strewn about the superheated tunnel were broken borer
bits, expended gasifiers, and clogged filtration masks, all
abandoned by the exploratory team that had sunk the shaft
several standard months earlier. From the shaft’s broad mouth issued the repeated reports of the probe droid’s
hydraulic jacks. Music to Tenebrous’s auditory organs, Plagueis was certain.
“Can you not share your plans for this discovery?”
“In due time, Darth Plagueis.” Tenebrous turned away
from him to address the treddroid. “Instruct the probe to
evaluate the properties of the secondary lode.” Plagueis studied the screen affixed to the droid’s flat
head. It displayed a map of the probe’s movements and a
graphic analysis of its penetrating scans, which reached
clear to the upper limits of the magma chamber.
“The probe is running an analysis,” the treddroid
updated. With the reciprocating sounds of the probe’s hydraulic
jacks echoing in the crystal cave, Tenebrous began to
circle the shaft, only to come to a sudden halt when the
drilling ceased.
“Why has it stopped?” he asked before Plagueis could.
The droid’s reply was immediate. “The Em-Two unit
informs me that it has discovered a pocket of gas directly
beneath the new borehole.” The droid paused, then added:
“I’m sorry to report, sirs, that the gas is a highly combustible
variant of lethane. The Em-Two unit predicts that the heat
generated by its hydraulic jacks will ignite an explosion of
significant magnitude.” Suspicion crept into Tenebrous’s voice. “The original
report made no mention of lethane.”
The droid pivoted to face him. “I know nothing of that, sir. But the Em-Two unit is quite insistent. What’s more, my
own programming corroborates the fact that it is not
unusual to find pockets of lethane in close proximity to
cortosis ore.”
“Query the probe about excavating around the lethane
pocket,” Plagueis said.
“The Em-Two unit recommends employing that very
strategy, sir. Shall I order it to proceed?” Plagueis looked at Tenebrous, who nodded.
“Task the probe to proceed,” Plagueis said. When the
hammering recommenced, he fixed his gaze on the display
screen to monitor the probe’s progress. “Tell the probe to
stop,” he said after only a moment had elapsed.
“Why are you interfering?” Tenebrous said, storming
forward. Plagueis gestured to the display. “The map indicates a more massive concentration of lethane in the area where
it’s drilling.”
“You’re correct, sir,” the droid said in what amounted to
dismay. “Iwill order the unit to halt all activity.” And yet the hammering continued.
“Droid,” Plagueis snapped, “did the probe acknowledge
your order?”
“No, sir. The Em-Two is not responding.”
Tenebrous stiffened, narrowly avoiding slamming his
head into one of the cave’s massive crystals. “Is it still within
range?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Then run a communications diagnostic.”
“I have, sir, and all systems are nominal. The unit’s
inability to respond—” It fell briefly silent and began again.
“The unit’s refusal to respond appears to be deliberate.”
“Deactivate it,” Tenebrous said. “At once.”
The hammering slowed and eventually ceased, but not
for long.
“The Em-Two unit has overridden my command.”
“Impossible,” Tenebrous said.
“Clearly not, sir. In fact, it is highly probable that the unit is
executing a deep-seated subroutine that escaped earlier
notice.” Plagueis glanced at Tenebrous. “Who procured the
probe?”
“This isn’t the time for questions. The probe is about to
breach the pocket.” Hastening to the rim of the circular shaft, the two Sith
removed their gloves and aimed their long-fingered
unprotected hands into the inky darkness. Instantly tangles
of blue electrical energy discharged from their fingertips,
raining into the borehole. Strobing and clawing for the
bottom, the vigorous bolts coruscated into the lateral
corridor the probe had excavated. Crackling sounds
spewed from the opening long after the Sith had harnessed
their powers.
Then the repetitive strikes of the jackhammer began
once more.
“It’s the ore,” Tenebrous said. “There’s too much
resistance here.” Plagueis knew what needed to be done. “I’ll go down,” he
said, and was on the verge of leaping into the shaft when
Tenebrous restrained him.
“This can wait. We’re returning to the grotto.” Plagueis hesitated, then nodded. “As you say, Master.”
Tenebrous swung to the droid. “Continue your attempts
to deactivate the unit.”
“Iwill, sir. To do that, however, Iwill need to remain here.”
“What of it?” Tenebrous said, cocking his head to one
side.
“Should I fail in my efforts, the ensuing explosion will
surely result in my destruction.” Plagueis understood. “You’ve been useful, droid.”
“Thank you, sir.”
Tenebrous scowled. “You waste your breath.” Nearly knocked over by the swiftness of Tenebrous’s
departure, Plagueis had to call deeply on the Force merely
to keep up. Retracing the inclined path they had taken from
the grotto in which their starship waited, they fairly flew up
the crystal-studded tunnel they had picked their way through
earlier. Plagueis grasped that a powerful explosion was
perhaps imminent, but was mystified by his Master’s
almost mad dash for the surface. In the past Tenebrous had
rarely evinced signs of discomfort, let alone fear; so what
danger had he sensed that propelled him with such
abandon? And when, in the past, had they fled danger of
any sort? Safeguarded by the powers of the dark side, the Sith could hardly fear death when they were allied to it. Plagueis stretched out with his feelings in an attempt to
identify the source of Tenebrous’s dread, but the Force was
silent.
Ten meters ahead of him, the Bith had ducked under a
scabrous outcropping. Haste, however, brought him upright
too quickly and his left shoulder glanced off the rough rock,
leaving a portion of his suit shredded.
“Master, allow me to lead,” Plagueis said when he
reached Tenebrous. He was only slightly more agile than
the Bith, but he had better night vision and a keener sense
of direction, over and above what the Force imparted. His pride wounded more than his shoulder, Tenebrous waved off the offer. “Be mindful of your place.” Regaining
his balance and composure, he streaked off. But at a fork
in the tunnel, he took the wrong turn.
“This way, Master,” Plagueis called from the other
corridor, but he stopped to surrender the lead. Closer to the surface the tunnels opened into caverns the
size of cathedrals, smoothed and hollowed by rainwater
that still surged in certain seasons of Bal’demnic’s long
year. In pools of standing water darted various species of
blind fish. Overhead, hawk-bats took panicked flight from
their roosting places in the stippled ceiling. Natural light in
the far distance prompted the two Sith to race for the grotto;
but, even so, they were a moment late.
The gas explosion caught up with them just as they were
entering the light-filled cavity at the top of the escarpment.
From deep in the tunnel resounded a squealing electronic wail, and at the same time, almost as if the cave system
were gasping for breath, a searing wind tore down from a
perforation in the grotto’s arched ceiling through which the
ship had entered. A muffled but ground-heaving detonation
followed; then a roiling fireball that was the labyrinth’s
scorching exhalation. Whirling to the tunnel they had just
exited and managing somehow to remain on his feet,
Tenebrous conjured a Force shield with his waving arms
that met the fireball and contained it, thousands of flaming
hawk-bats spiraling within the tumult like windblown
embers. A few meters away Plagueis, hurled face-first to the
ground by the intensity of the vaporizing blast, lifted his
head in time to see the underside of the domed ceiling
begin to shed enormous slabs of rock. Directly below the
plummeting slabs sat their starship.
“Master!” he said, scrambling to his feet with arms lifted
in an attempt to hold the rocks in midair. His own arms still raised in a Force-summoning posture,
Tenebrous swung around to bolster Plagueis’s intent. Behind him, the fireball’s final flames surged from the mouth of the tunnel to lick his back and drive him deeper
into the grotto.
The cave continued to spasm underfoot, sending shock waves through the crazed ceiling. Cracks spread like a web from the oculus, triggering collapses throughout the
grotto. Plagueis heard a rending sound overhead and watched a fissure zigzag its way across the ceiling,
sloughing layer after layer of stone as it followed the
grotto’s curved wall. Now, though, it was Tenebrous who was positioned
beneath the fall. And in that instant Plagueis perceived the danger
Tenebrous had foreseen earlier: his death. His death at Plagueis’s hands. While Tenebrous was preoccupied holding aloft the
slabs that threatened to crush the ship, Plagueis quickly
reoriented himself, aiming his raised hands at the
plummeting slabs above his Master and, with a downward motion of both arms, brought them down so quickly and with so much momentum that Tenebrous was buried almost
before he understood what had hit him. Stone dust eddying around him, Plagueis stood rooted in
place as slabs interred the starship, as well. But he gave it
no thought. His success in bringing the ceiling down on
Tenebrous was proof enough that the Bith had grown
sluggish and expendable. Otherwise, he would have
divined the true source of the danger he had sensed, and
Plagueis would be the one pressed to the floor of the
grotto, head cracked open like an egg and chest cavity
pierced by the pointed end of a fallen stalactite. His race to Tenebrous’s side was informed as much by
excitement as charade. “Master,” he said, genuflecting and
removing his and Tenebrous’s respirators. His hands
pawed at the stones, removing some of the crushing weight. But Tenebrous’s single lung was pierced, and
blood gurgled in his throat. Ragged tears in the sleeves of
the envirosuit revealed esoteric body markings and tattoos.
“Stop, apprentice,” Tenebrous strained to say. “You’re
going to need all your strength.”
“I can bring help. There’s time—”
“I’m dying, Darth Plagueis. There’s time only for that.” Plagueis held the Bith’s pained gaze. “I did all that I
could, Master.”
Tenebrous interrupted him once more. “To be strong in
the Force is one thing. But to believe oneself to be allpowerful is to invite catastrophe. Remember, that even in
the ethereal realm we inhabit, the unforeseen can occur.” A
stuttering cough silenced him for a moment. “Better this way, perhaps, than to perish at your hand.” As Darth Bane would have wished, Plagueis thought.
“Who supplied the mining probe, Master?”
“Subtext,” Tenebrous said in a weak voice. “Subtext
Mining.” Plagueis nodded. “Iwill avenge you.”
Tenebrous canted his huge head ever so slightly. “Will
you?”
“Of course.”
If the Bith was convinced, he kept it to himself, and said
instead: “You are fated to bring the Sith imperative to
fruition, Plagueis. It falls to you to bring the Jedi Order to its
knees and to save the rest of the galaxy’s sentients from
themselves.” At long last, Plagueis told himself, the mantle is
conferred.
“But I need to warn you …,” Tenebrous started to say and
fell abruptly silent. Plagueis could sense the Bith’s highly evolved mind
replaying recent events, calculating odds, reaching
conclusions.
“Warn me about what, Master?”
Tenebrous’s black eyes shone with yellow light and his
free hand clutched at the ring collar of Plagueis’s envirosuit. “You!” Plagueis pried the Bith’s thin hand from the fabric and
grinned faintly. “Yes, Master, your death comes at my
bidding. You said yourself that perpetuation with purpose is
the way to victory, and so it is. Go to your grave knowing
that you are last of the old order, the vaunted Rule of Two,
and that the new order begins now and will for a thousand
years remain in my control.”
Tenebrous coughed spittle and blood. “Then for the last
time, I call you apprentice. And I applaud your skillful use of
surprise and misdirection. Perhaps Iwas wrong to think you
had no stomach for it.”
“The dark side guided me, Tenebrous. You sensed it, but
your lack of faith in me clouded your thoughts.”
The Bith’s head bobbed in agreement. “Even before we
came to Bal’demnic.”
“And yet we came.”
“Because we were fated to.” Tenebrous paused, then
spoke with renewed urgency: “But wait! The ship—”
“Crushed, as you are.”
Tenebrous’s anger stabbed at Plagueis. “You’ve risked
everything to undo me! The entire future of the Sith! My
instincts about you prove correct, after all!” Plagueis leaned away from him, nonchalant, but in fact
filled with an icy fury. “I’ll find a way home, Tenebrous, as will you.” And with a chopping motion of his left hand, he
broke the Bith’s neck.
Tenebrous was paralyzed and unconscious but not yet
dead. Plagueis had no interest in saving him—even if it were possible—but he was interested in observing the
behavior of the Bith’s midi-chlorians as life ebbed. The Jedi
thought of the cellular organelles as symbionts, but to Plagueis midi-chlorians were interlopers, running
interference for the Force and standing in the way of a
being’s ability to contact the Force directly. Through years
of experimentation and directed meditation, Plagueis had
honed an ability to perceive the actions of midi-chlorians,
though not yet the ability to manipulate them. Manipulate them, say, to prolong Tenebrous’s life.
Looking at the Bith through the Force, he perceived that
the midichlorians were already beginning to die out, as were the neurons that made up Tenebrous’s lofty brain and
the muscle cells that powered his once-able heart. A
common misconception held that midi-chlorians were
Force-carrying particles, when in fact they functioned more
as translators, interlocutors of the will of the Force. Plagueis
considered his long-standing fascination with the
organelles to be as natural as had been Tenebrous’s
fixation on shaping the future. Where Bith intelligence was
grounded in mathematics and computation, Muun
intelligence was driven by a will to profit. As a Muun, Plagueis viewed his allegiance to the Force as an
investment that could, with proper effort, be maximized to
yield great returns. True, too, to Muun psychology and
tradition, he had through the decades hoarded his
successes, and never once taken Tenebrous into his
confidence.
The Bith’s moribund midi-chlorians were winking out, like
lights slowly deprived of a power source, and yet Plagueis
could still perceive Tenebrous in the Force. One day he would succeed in imposing his will on the midi-chlorians to
keep them aggregate. But such speculations were for
another time. Just now Tenebrous and all he had been in
life were beyond Plagueis’s reach. He wondered if the Jedi were subsumed in similar
fashion. Even in life, did midi-chlorians behave in a Jedi as
they did in a devotee of the dark side? Were the organelles
invigorated by different impulses, prompted into action by
different desires? He had encountered many Jedi during
his long life, but he had never made an attempt to study one
in the same way he appraised Tenebrous now, out of
concern for revealing the power of his alliance with the dark
side. That, too, might have to change.
Tenebrous died while Plagueis observed.
In Bane’s age a Sith might have had to guard against an
attempt at essence transfer by the deceased—a leap into
the consciousness of the Sith who survived—but those
times were long past and of no relevance; not since the
teachings had been sabotaged, the technique lost. The last
Sith possessed of the knowledge had been inexplicably
drawn to the light side and killed, taking the secret process with him …
2: THE INNER LANDSCAPE
Plagueis wasn’t certain how long he remained at
Tenebrous’s side. Long enough, though, that when he rose
his legs were quivering and some of the dust from the
explosion had settled. Only when he took a few backward
steps did he realize that the event had not left him
unscathed. At some point, probably when he was focused
on murder, a rock or some other projectile had pulped a
large area of his lower back, and now the thin tunic he wore
beneath the enviro-suit was saturated with blood. Despite the swirling dust, he inhaled deeply, eliciting a
stab of pain from his rib cage and a cough that spewed
blood into the hot air. Drawing on the Force, he numbed
himself to the pain and tasked his body to limit the damage
as best it could. When the injury ceased to preoccupy him,
he surveyed the grotto, remaining anchored in place but
turning a full circle. Littering the hard ground, injured hawkbats were chirping in distress and clawing through circles
of their own. Far above him, a beam of oblique and dust- moted daylight streamed through the dome’s large oculus —itself the result of an earlier collapse. Close to the jumble
of stones the collapse had piled on the grotto floor sat
Tenebrous’s small but priceless starship—a Rugess Nome
design—alloy wings and snubbed nose poking from the
artless mausoleum the explosion had fashioned. And
finally, not meters away, lay Tenebrous, similarly interred. Approaching the ship, Plagueis scanned the damage
that had been inflicted on the deflector shield and
navigation arrays, coolant ducts, sensors, and antennas.
Tenebrous would surely have been able to effect repairs to
some of the components, but Plagueis was out of his
depth, lacking not only the Bith’s fine motor skills but his
knowledge of the ship’s systems. Though unique, a marvel
of engineering, the ship couldn’t be traced to Tenebrous,
since both the registry and title were counterfeit. It was
possible that the rescue beacon was still functional, but
Plagueis was reluctant to activate it. They had arrived on Bal’demnic in stealth, and he intended to depart in like manner. But how?
Again he squinted into the light pouring in through the
oculus. Not even his power in the Force was enough to
carry him from the floor and up through the grotto’s
unblinking eye. Nothing short of a jetpack would do, and the
ship didn’t carry one. His gaze drifted from the oculus to the
grotto’s curving walls. He supposed he could spider his way along the arched underside of the dome and reach the
eye, but now he saw a better way. More, a way to accomplish two tasks at the same time.
From a spot mid-distance between the ship and rubble
pile beneath the oculus, he immersed himself in the Force
and, with gestures not unlike those he and Tenebrous had
used in arresting the ceiling collapse, began to levitate
slabs from the ship and add them to the rubble heap,
stopping only when he had both exposed the hatch of the
ship and was confident he could Force-leap through the
oculus from atop the augmented pile. When he tried springing the hatch, however, he found that
it wouldn’t budge. He was ultimately able to gain entry to the
cockpit by assailing the transparisteel canopy with a series
of Force blows. Worming his way inside, he retrieved his
travel bag, which contained a comlink, his lightsaber, and a
change of clothes, among other items. He also took
Tenebrous’s comlink and lightsaber, and made certain to
erase the memory of the navicomputer. Once outside the
ship, he peeled out of the enviro-suit and blood-soaked
tunic, trading them for dark trousers, an overshirt,
lightweight boots, and a hooded robe. Affixing both
lightsabers to his belt, he activated the comlink and called
up a map of Bal’demnic. With scant satellites in orbit, the
planet had nothing in the way of a global positioning
system, but the map told Plagueis all he needed to know
about the immediate area. He took a final look around. It wasn’t likely that an
indigene would have reason to investigate the grotto, and it was even less likely that another interstellar visitor would
find this place; even so, he spent a moment regarding the
scene objectively.
A partially crushed but costly and salvage-worthy
starship. The decomposed body of a Bith spacefarer. The
aftermath of an explosive event …
The scene of an unfortunate accident in a galaxy
brimming with them. Satisfied, Plagueis leapt to the top of the pile, then
through the roof into the remains of the day.
The radiant heat of Bal’demnic’s primary beat down on his
exposed skin, and a persistent offshore wind tugged at the
robe. West and south as far as his eyes could see was an
expanse of azure ocean, curling white where it pounded the
coastline. Rugged, denuded hills vanished into sea mist. Plagueis imagined a time when forest had blanketed the
landscape, before the indigenous Kon’me had felled the
trees for building materials and firewood. Now what
vegetation survived was confined to the steep-sided
gorges that separated the brown hills. A somber beauty. Perhaps, he thought, there was more to recommend the
planet than deposits of cortosis ore. A resident of Muunilinst for most of his adult life, Plagueis was no stranger to ocean worlds. But unlike most Muuns,
he was also accustomed to remote, low-tech ones, having
spent his childhood and adolescence on a host of similar
planets and moons. With that hemisphere of Bal’demnic rotating quickly into
night, the wind was increasing in strength and the
temperature was dropping. The map he had called up on
the comlink showed that the planet’s primary spaceport was only a few hundred kilometers to the south. Tenebrous
had intentionally skirted the port when they had made
planetfall, coming in over the northern ice cap rather than
over the sea. Plagueis calculated that he could cover the
distance to the spaceport by evening of the following day, which would still give him a standard week in which to
return to Muunilinst in time to host the Gathering on Sojourn. But he knew, too, that the route would take him through
areas inhabited by both elite and plebeian Kon’me; so he
resolved to travel at night to avoid contact with the noisome
and xenophobic reptilian sapients. There was little point to
leaving dead bodies in his wake.
Cinching the robe around his waist, he began to move,
slowly at first, then gathering speed, until to any being watching he would have appeared a dazzling blur; an errant
dust devil racing across the treeless terrain. He hadn’t run
far before he chanced upon a rudimentary trail, impressed
in places with the footprints of indigenes, and he paused to
study them. Barefoot, lower-class Kon’me had left the
prints, probably fisherfolk whose thatched-roof dwellings
dotted the shoreline. Plagueis reckoned the size and weight of the reptilians responsible for the tracks, and
estimated the time elapsed since they had passed. Drawing himself up, he scanned the dun hills, then sniffed
the wind, wishing he were imbued with even a touch of
Tenebrous’s olfactory acuity. Up ahead he was bound to
encounter elite Kon’me as well, or at the very least their
cliff-side dome dwellings. Night fell as he resumed his pace. The ocean shone
silver under starlight, and night-blooming flora scented the
humid air with heady aromas. Predators of any size had
been hunted to extinction on the northern island continents,
but the deep gorges were home to countless varieties of
voracious insects that set upon him in clouds as he picked
his way through the dense underbrush. Lowering his body
temperature and slowing his breathing to alter the mixture
of gases in his exhalations did little to dissuade the insects,
so after a while he ceased all attempts at warding them off
and surrendered to their thirst for blood, which they drew
freely from his face, neck, and hands.
Let them devour the old Plagueis, he thought.
In the dark wood of that remote world, with a salted wind whistling through the trees and a distant sound of waves
like drumming, he would take flight from the underworld in which the Sith had dwelled. Awakened from a millennium of
purposeful sleep, the power of the dark side would be
reborn, and he, Plagueis, would carry the long-forged plan
to completion.
Through the night he ran, sheltering inside a shallow cave while the morning mist was evanescing from the hollows. Even that early the blue-scaled indigenes were about,
appearing from their huts to cast nets into the crashing surf
or paddle boats to stretches of reef or nearby islets. The
best of their catch would be carried into the hills to stuff the
bellies of the wealthy, with whom rested responsibility for Bal’demnic’s political and economic future. Their guttural
voices stole into the cave that fit Plagueis like a tomb, and
he could understand some of the words they exchanged. He chased sleep, but it eluded him, and he deplored the
fact that he still had need for it. Tenebrous had never slept,
but then few Bith did. Awake in the oppressive heat, he replayed the events of
the previous day, still somewhat astounded by what he had
done. The Force had whispered to him: Your moment has
come. Claim your stake to the dark side. Act nowand be
done with this. But the Force had only advised; it had
neither dictated his actions nor guided his hands. That had
been his doing alone. He knew from his travels with and without Tenebrous that he wasn’t the galaxy’s sole
practitioner of the dark side—nor Sith for that matter, since
the galaxy was rife with pretenders—but he was now the
only Sith Lord descended from the Bane line. A true Sith,
and that realization roused the raw power coiled inside him. And yet …
When he reached out with the Force he could detect the
presence of something or some being of near-equal power. Was it the dark side itself, or merely a vestige of his
uncertainty? He had read the legends of Bane; how he had
been hounded by the lingering presences of those he had
defeated in order to rid the Sith Order of infighting, and
return the Order to a genuine hegemony by instating the Rule of Two: a Master to embody power; an apprentice to
crave it. To hear it told, Bane had even been hounded by
the spirits of generations-dead Sith Lords whose tombs
and manses he had desecrated in his fervent search for
holocrons and other ancient devices offering wisdom and
guidance. Was Tenebrous’s spirit the source of the power he
sensed? Was there a brief period of survival after death
during which a true Sith could continue to influence the world of the living?
It was as if the mass of the galaxy had descended on
him. A lesser being might have heaved his shoulders, but
Plagueis, wedged into his clandestine tomb, felt as weightless as he would have in deep space. He would outlive any who challenged him.
* * *
Hours later, when the voices had faded and the insects’
feeding frenzy had started anew, pain roused Plagueis
from tortured slumber. The tunic was adhered to his swollen
flesh like a pressure bandage, but blood had seeped from
the wound and soaked through to the robe. Slipping silently into the night, he limped until he had
suppressed the pain, then began to run, beads of
perspiration evaporating from his hairless head and the
dark robe unfurling behind him like a banner. Famished, he
considered raiding one of the local homes and feasting on
the eggs of some low-caste Kon’me, or perhaps on the
blood of her and her mate. But he reined in his impulses to
strike terror, his appetite for destruction, sating himself
instead on bats and the rotting remains of fish the waves
had washed ashore. Hurrying along the black sand beach,
he passed within meters of dwellings built from blocks of
fossilized reefstone, but he glimpsed only one indigene, who, on leaving his hut naked to relieve himself, reacted as
if he had seen an apparition. Or else in hilarity at the figure Plagueis must have cut in robe and boots. On the cliffs high
above the beach, artificial lights glimmered, announcing the
homes of the elite and the proximity of the spaceport, whose ambient glow illuminated a broad area of the
southern littoral. His destination close at hand, each incoming ocean wave reverberated inside him, summoning an
unprecedented tide of dark energy. The knotted tendrils of
time loosened and he had a glimpse into Bal’demnic’s
future. Embroiled in a multifronted war, a galactic war, in
part because of its rich deposits of cortosis, but more as a
pawn in a convoluted game, the subservient Kon’me turned
against those who had mastered them for eons …
Lost in reverie, Plagueis almost failed to notice that a massive breakwater now followed the curve of the beach. Stone jetties jutted into a broad, calm bay, and behind the wall a city climbed into a surround of deforested foothills. Kon’me of both classes were about, but interspersed
among them were offworlders of many species, most from
neighboring star systems but some from as distant as the Core. The spaceport formed the city’s southernmost
outskirts, made up of clusters of modular buildings,
prefabricated warehouses and hangars, illuminated landing
areas for cargo and passenger ships. To a being unfamiliar with isolated worlds, a tour through the spaceport would
have seemed closer to time travel, but Plagueis felt at
home among the cubicle hotels, dimly lighted tapcafs, and
squalid cantinas, where entertainment was costly and life was cheap. Raising the cowl of the robe over his head, he
kept to the shadows, his height alone enough to draw
attention. With security lax he was able to circulate among
the grounded vessels without difficulty. He ignored the
smaller, intersystem ships in favor of long-haul freighters,
and even then only those that appeared to be in good
condition. Muunilinst was several hyperspace jumps
distant, and only a ship with adequate jump capability could
deliver him there without too much delay. After an hour of searching he found one to his liking. A
product of Core engineering, the freighter had to be half a
century old, but it had been well maintained and retrofitted with modern sensor suites and subspace drives. That it
bore no legend suggested that the ship’s captain wasn’t
interested in having the ship make a name for itself. Longer
than it was wide, LS-447-3 had a narrow fantail, an
undermount cockpit, and broad cargo bay doors, which
permitted it to take on large freight. With the registry
number stored in his comlink, Plagueis angled his way to
the spaceport authority building. At that time of night the
dilapidated structure was all but deserted, save for two
thick-necked Kon’me guards who were sleeping on duty.
Loosening the robe’s sash to provide ready access to his
lightsabers, Plagueis eased past them and disappeared
through the main doors. Faint light from unoccupied offices
spilled into the dark hallways. On the second floor he found
the registrar’s office, which overlooked the largest of the
landing zones and the silent bay beyond. A comp that had been an antique twenty years earlier sat
atop a desk in a smaller private office. Plagueis placed his
comlink alongside the machine and an instant later had
sliced into the spaceport control network. A search for the
freighter revealed that it did indeed go by a name—the Woebegone—out of Ord Mantell. Scheduled to launch the
following morning, the ship with her crew of eight, including
one droid, was bound for several worlds in the Auril sector,
carrying cargos of fresh sea life. According to the manifest,
the cargo had already cleared customs and was housed in
a refrigerated hangar awaiting transfer to the ship. The
good news was that the Woebegone’s ultimate destination was Ithor, on the far side of the Hydian Way. A side trip to Muunilinst, therefore, might not strike the crew as too great
a detour. Plagueis called up an image of the freighter’s captain, whose name was given as Ellin Lah. Opening himself fully
to the Force, he studied the image for a long moment; then,
exhaling slowly, he stood, erased all evidence of his
technological intrusions, and returned the comlink to his
robe’s inner pocket.
The Woebegone had been waiting for him.
3: WOEBEGONE
Plagueis’s instincts about Bal’demnic were correct. The
planet’s rugged beauty was of a sort that appealed to the
hedonistic side of human nature and would one day draw
the wealthiest of that species to bask in the warm light of its
primary, toe its pristine sands, swim in its animated waters,
and dine on the toothsome fish that filled its vast oceans. But in those days, humans were still relatively scarce in that
part of the Outer Rim, and most visitors to Bal’demnic
hailed from Hutt space or the far reaches of the Perlemian
Trade Route. And so Captain Ellin Lah was Togruta, and
her first mate, a Zabrak named Maa Kaap. The Woebegone’s pilot was a Balosar; her navigator, a Dresselian; and her three crew members Klatooinian, Kaleesh, and an Aqualish, of the Quara race. “Nearhumans” all, to use the term favored at that time in the Core, where chauvinism had been raised to an art form. The only
nonsentient was a bipedal, multi-appendaged droid called
“OneOne-FourDee”, after its model number. Bal’demnic was but one of their planetary haunts. As
often as not they could be spotted on Vestral, Sikkem IV, or Carlix’s Folly. But all were similar in that Captain Lah and
her shipmates rarely saw anything more of the planets than what lay within a radius of five kilometers from the principal
spaceports, and their contact with indigenes was limited to
spaceport functionaries, merchants, information brokers,
and those in the pleasure professions.
Theirs was a precarious business, at a time when pirates
plied the intersystem trade routes, hyperspace beacons were few and far between, and a lapse in judgment could
result in disaster. The cost of fuel was exorbitant, corrupt
customs officials had to be bribed, and import–export taxes were subject to change without notice. Delays meant that
cargoes of foodstuffs could lose the freshness that made
them desirable, or worse yet spoil altogether. Dangers were manifold and the earnings were meager. You had to
love the work, or perhaps be on the run—from the law,
yourself, or whoever else. As a consequence of having imbibed too much local
grog and gambled away too many hard-earned credits—
and perhaps as atonement for so much carousing—
concerns about the coming trip had bobbed to the surface
of Captain Lah’s mind like an inflated balloon held under water, then released.
“No oversights this run,” she was warning the crew in a
gentle way, as they made their way across the landing zone
to their waiting ship.
The fact that she had used the same euphemism Blir’
had to minimize the impact of the near catastrophe he had
caused made all of them laugh—except the Balosar, who
lowered his head in mock shame, his twin antenepalps
deepening in color.
“We take your meaning, Captain,” Maa Kaap said. “No
inopportune omissions—”
“Ineradicable errors,” the Kaleesh, PePe Rossh,
interjected.
“Dumbass mistakes,” Doo Zuto completed, his close-set,
inward-curving tusks in need of a thorough scaling.
The captain allowed them a moment of merriment.
“I’m serious,” she said as they approached the Woebegone’s lowered boarding ramp. “I’ll say it again: this
ship operates as a democracy. I’m your captain because
knowing who’s good at what is just something I have a
talent for.” She looked at Blir’. “Do I ever tell you how to
pilot?” Then at Semasalli. “Do I ever question your decision
about jump points?”
“No, Captain,” the two said, as if by rote.
“So I’m simply speaking as a member of what should be
a competent team, and not as a commander.” She blew out
her breath in a way that shook her trio of striped head-tails.
“Either we turn a profit on this run, or we think about going
to the Hutts for another loan.” Even Wandau, who had had more dealings with various Hutts than anyone else, bemoaned the mere prospect.
“That’s right,” Lah told the tall Klatooinian. “And don’t any
of you fool yourself into thinking that we can float an honest
loan. Because no bank worth its assets is going to accept
the Woebegone as collateral.”
Maa Kaap and Blir’ traded quick glances before the
Zabrak said, “Excuse me for saying so, Captain, but you
didn’t seem particularly concerned about credits last night —”
“Watch what you say,” Lah told her first mate, barely
restraining a smile.
“I thought you were ready to give that young thing the
ship,” PePe said, joining the tease.
Lah waved a hand in dismissal. “I was just toying with
him.”
“Toy being the operative word,” Maa Kaap said. “Since
he was young enough to still play with them.”
The captain planted her hands on her hips. “I can be
convincing when Iwant to be.”
“Oh, that you were,” Zuto said, reigniting a chorus of
laughter that accompanied them into the Woebegone’s main cabin space, where 11-4D was waiting.
“Everything in order?” Lah asked the droid.
The droid raised three of its appendages in an
approximation of a salute. “Shipshape, Captain.”
“All the cargo is aboard and accounted for?”
“Aboard and accounted for, Captain.”
“You checked the thermo readouts?”
“In each bay, Captain.” She returned a satisfied nod. “Well, all right then.”
The shipmates split up, each with duties to perform. Blir’
and Semasalli to the cockpit; Zuto, Wandau, and PePe to
check that the cargo had been properly stowed; Maa Kaap
and 11-4D to seal the ship; and Captain Lah to get
clearance from Bal’demnic spaceport control. Without fanfare the ship left the warm world behind and
jumped from cold ether into the netherworld of hyperspace.
Lah was still seated at the communications console when Blir’ radioed her from the cockpit.
“We need your input on something.”
“Since when?” she said.
“Seriously.” She headed forward, and had no sooner ducked into the
cockpit than Semasalli indicated a flashing telltale on the
ship’s status display suite. A small metal plate below the
telltale read: CARGO BAY 4 AMBIENT.
“Too hot or too cold?” Lah asked the Dresselian.
“Too cold.”
Lah flicked her forefinger against the telltale, but it
continued to flash. “Funny, that usually works.” She studied
Semasalli’s frown. “What do you think?” He sniffed and ran a hand over a hairless, deeply
fissured head that mirrored the appearance of the
convoluted brain it contained. “Well, it could be the bay
thermostat.”
“Or?”
“Or one of the shipping containers could have opened?”
“By itself?”
“Maybe during the jump,” Blir’ said from the pilot’s chair.
“Okay, so we go check it out.” She glanced from Blir’ to Semasalli and shook her head in ignorance. “What aren’t
you telling me?” Blir’ answered for the two of them. “Remember the
Zabrak that Maa was talking to in the cantina?”
“Which cantina?” Lah said; then added: “No, I remember
him. He was looking for a lift.” Semasalli nodded. “He’d been booted from his last
freighter. He didn’t say why, but Maa thought he smelled
trouble, and said we couldn’t take him aboard.”
Lah followed the clues they were giving her and nodded.
“You’re thinking we have a stowaway.”
“Just a thought,” the Dresselian said.
“Which is why you wanted to check with me before going
aft.”
“Exactly.”
Lah’s face grew almost as wrinkled as Semasalli’s. “The
ship would have told us if anyone had tampered with the
anti-intrusion sys.”
“Unless he came in with the cargo?” Blir’ said.
“You mean inside one of the containers?” Blir’ nodded.
“Then he’d be stiff as an icicle by now.” Lah turned to Semasalli. “Does bay four have a vid feed?”
“On screen,” Semasalli said, swiveling his chair to face
the status displays.
Lah put her palms flat on the console and leaned toward
the screen while the Dresselian brought up grainy views of
the cargo bay. Finally the remote cam found what they were
looking for: an opened shipping container, wreathed by
clouds of coolant, with its cargo of costly meat-fins already
defrosting.
“Spawn of a—” Lah started when the next view of the
cargo bay stunned her into slack-jawed silence. Blir’ blinked repeatedly before asking, “Is that what I think
it is?”
Lah swallowed hard and found her voice. “Well, it sure
isn’t the Zabrak.”
Plagueis was seated atop one of the smaller shipping
containers when the hatch began to cycle. Fully awake
since the Woebegone’s jump to hyperspace, he had sat
still for the various scans the crew had run, and now
lowered the hood of the lightweight and bloodied robe. When the hatch slid to, he found himself confronted by the
ship’s Togruta female captain, along with a muscular male
Zabrak; a mottled Klatooinian as tall as a normal Muun; an Aqualish of the two-eyed variety; and a scarlet-hued, scalyskinned Kaleesh, whose face resembled those of the bats Plagueis had consumed on Bal’demnic, and who was
emitting an olio of potent pheromones. All five carried
blasters, but only the Klatooinian’s was primed for fire and
leveled at Plagueis.
“You’re not listed on the shipping manifest, stranger,” Captain Lah said as she stepped into the bay, breath
clouds emerging with the words. Plagueis spread his hands in an innocent gesture. “I
confess to being a stowaway, Captain.”
Lah approached guardedly, motioning to the open
container a few meters away. “How did you survive in
there?” Plagueis mimicked the wave of her hand. “Those sea
creatures make a comfortable bed.”
The Zabrak surged forward, his stippled cranium
furrowed in anger. “Those creatures are how we make our
living, Muun. And right now they’re not worth a karking
credit.” Plagueis locked eyes with him. “I apologize for spoiling
some of your cargo.”
“The coolant,” Lah said more harshly. “How did you
survive that?”
“We Muuns have three hearts,” Plagueis said, crossing
one leg over the other. “Two of them are under voluntary
control, so I was able to keep my blood circulating and my
body temperature close to normal.” Standing by the open container, the Quara said,
“Speaking of blood, you’re leaking some.” Plagueis saw that some of the sea creatures were
coated with congealed blood. “The result of an unfortunate
accident. But thank you for noticing.”
Lah shifted her gaze from the container to Plagueis. “We
have a medical droid. I’ll have it take a look at your injury.”
“That’s very kind of you, Captain.”
“You’re a long way from the Braxant Run,” the Kaleesh
said. “And probably the last species we’d expect to find
stowing away in a cargo container.” Plagueis nodded in agreement. “I can well imagine.”
“Kon’meas Spaceport has passenger flights to Bimmisaari,” the Zabrak added. “You couldn’t wait, or
you’re out of credits?”
“To be honest, I wished to avoid the common
spaceways.”
Lah and the Zabrak traded dubious looks. “Are you a
fugitive?” she asked. “Wanted?” Plagueis shook his head. “I do, however, value my
privacy.”
“Well you might,” the Quara said. “But you have to admit —” He motioned to the bloody sea creatures. “—this
undermines your credibility some.”
“What brought you to Bal’demnic, Muun?” the Klatooinian
asked before Plagueis could speak.
“I’m not at liberty to divulge the nature of my activities.”
“Banking Clan investments,” the Klatooinian said with a
sneer. “Or lawyering. That’s all the Muuns do, Captain.”
Lah appraised Plagueis. “Is he right?” Plagueis shrugged. “Not all of us are bankers or lawyers. No more than all Togrutas are pacifists.”
“Be better for you if you were a financial wizard,” the
Zabrak said, “to avoid being jettisoned from our ship.” Plagueis kept his eyes on Lah. “Captain, I appreciate
that you and your crew have many questions about me. But
perhaps for the sake of simplicity, the two of us could
speak privately for a moment.” When she hesitated, he
added: “Strictly in the interest of facilitating an agreement.”
Lah glanced at everyone, then set her jaw and nodded. “I won’t be long,” she told the Zabrak as he was exiting the
bay. “But keep us on vid anyway.”
The Zabrak shot Plagueis a gimlet stare as he spoke. “If
you are long, we’ll be returning soon enough.” Plagueis waited until he and Lah were alone. “Thank you, Captain.” She scowled. “Enough of the polite jabber. Who are you,
and why didn’t you leave Bal’demnic aboard whatever craft
brought you there?” Plagueis loosed an elaborate sigh. “Before we go into
any of that, suppose we assess the present situation
squarely. I’ve stowed away aboard your vessel in the hope
of arranging quick passage to Muunilinst.” Speaking in
Basic, Plagueis pronounced the word with the second n
silent. “Fortunately for both of us, I’m in a position to reward
you handsomely for transport—and of course I’ll cover the
cost of whatever precious cargo I’ve ruined. You need only
quote a reasonable price and the deal can be concluded. I
assure you, Captain, that I am a Muun of my word.” Her eyes narrowed in misgiving. “Leaving aside your
identity for the moment—you know, the important things—
your onward passage is a matter I’ll have to take up with the
crew.” Plagueis blinked in genuine confusion. “I’m not sure I
understand. You are the Woebegone’s captain, are you
not?”
“We’re equals aboard this ship,” Lah said. “I don’t make
any major decisions without at least hearing everyone out—
whether those decisions involve the cargo we transport or where we deliver it. And while you’re trying to make up your mind whether I’m noble or simply foolish, let me add that I
don’t care what you think of the arrangement. As you said:
it’s the situation.” Plagueis smiled without showing his teeth. “In that case, Captain, I await the results of the summit.”
Lah relaxed somewhat. “You’re going to have to sit tight
in the meantime.” Plagueis took the conditions in stride. “Take as much
time as needed. The closer we get to Ithor, the closer I am
to home.”
The words stopped her cold. “How do you know we’re
bound for Ithor?”
“The same way I know that your name is Ellin Lah.” Delighting in her confusion, Plagueis said: “I’m not a
telepath, Captain Lah. After I selected your ship from
among those on the field, I sliced into Bal’demnic’s
spaceport network.” She tilted her head in a mix of interest and unease. “Why
the Woebegone, then?” Plagueis sniffed. “I don’t gamble, Captain, unless I know
that the odds of winning are on my side.” She snorted. “That’s not gambling.”
In the main cabin space, 11-4D had been monitoring the
conversation of the crew members since their return from
cargo bay 4. The closest thing the Woebegone had to an
actual medical specialist, the droid was responsible for the
care and health of the crew, and so it had grown
accustomed to eavesdropping on conversations whenever
and wherever possible. Having created individual profiles
based on heartbeat and breathing rates, body temperature
and language, facial expression and vocalization, the droid
understood that the discovery of a Muun intruder aboard the
ship had significantly elevated Maa Kaap’s stress level.
“When have you ever known a Muun to do that?” the
Zabrak was saying.
“When have you ever known a Muun, period?” Wandau
asked in kind.
“All right, then, when have you ever heard about a Muun
doing that?” Before Maa Kaap or anyone else could respond, the
captain entered the cabin space, clearly confounded
though doing her best to disguise it. 11-4D noted
increased blood flow in her head-tails, which were
themselves sensory organs, and a change in her
pigmentation—a Togruta response to nervous tension that
sometimes prompted involuntary mimetic camouflage.
“So,” Maa Kaap said, coming to his feet.
The crew members listened intently as Captain Lah
summarized the short exchange she’d had with the Muun
stowaway, who had refused to provide any personal
details, not even his name. Nor had he offered explanation
for his presence on Bal’demnic, or divulged the reason
behind his wanting to depart in haste. Most important, he
had revealed nothing about the cause or nature of his injury.
Instead he had fixed on arranging a deal for passage to Muunilinst, a world on the distant Braxant Run and
corporate headquarters of the InterGalactic Banking Clan.
“What’s your gut telling you about him, Captain?” PePe
asked, his pointed ears twitching in curiosity. Captain Lah glanced back at the corridor that led to
cargo bay 4. “He’s as slick as they come and used to
getting his way. But either we take him back to Bal’demnic —and put our cargo at risk—or we drop him at our first stop
and make him someone else’s problem.”
“Or we just jettison him now,” Wandau said.
Lah shook her head. “We don’t know he didn’t tell
someone on Bal’demnic that he was stowing away. And if
he did, his disappearance could put us in serious muck.”
“What’s it going be, then?” Maa Kaap pressed.
Lah made her lips a thin line. “I think we should get him
off our hands as soon as possible.” Wandau and Zuto exchanged glances. “You don’t want to
even discuss coming up with a price for passage?”
“I’ve never been on the Braxant Run,” Lah said. “Have
any of you?” Heads shook.
“Is he willing to cover the cost of the spoiled cargo?” PePe asked.
“He said he would.”
“Then maybe we take him to Ithor,” the Kaleesh went on.
“If he proves to be a cooperative passenger, we could
consider taking him all the way to Muunilinst. Certainly wouldn’t hurt to get familiar with that corner of space.”
“I don’t know …” Lah took her lower lip between her
teeth.
“I’ll go one step further,” Zuto said, leading with his whiskered snout. “I mean, this Muun could be a jackpot
that’s fallen right into our laps. Weren’t you just saying that
no bank would ever grant us a loan against the Woebegone? Well, Muunilinst is the bank, and this Muun
can provide all the collateral we’ll ever need.”
“Our reward for years of leading clean lives,” PePe
added.
Lah regarded the two of them. “Meaning what? We hold
him for ransom?”
Zuto drew in his tusks and shrugged. “We don’t have to
call it that.”
“Forget it,” Lah said. “We’ve never done that—well, once, maybe—but we’re not about to do it again.”
“I agree,” Maa Kaap said. Wandau’s head bobbed. “Same.” PePe withdrew somewhat. “Okay, so I was just thinking
out loud.”
“There’s something else,” Maa Kaap said. Raising his
big hand, he beckoned to 11-4D. “Tell the captain what you were telling us.”
The droid moved to where the crew members were
gathered and swiveled its round head toward Lah.
“Captain, I merely pointed out that Muuns are not known to
travel unaccompanied without ample reasons for doing so.
In fact, most Muuns are reluctant to leave Muunilinst for any
purpose other than to transact business negotiations.”
“That’s exactly what I was saying about collateral,” PePe
interrupted. “There has to be some financial reason for his
being on Bal’demnic—some major deal in the works we might be able to get in on. A construction project, maybe.”
“Let FourDee finish,” Maa Kaap said.
Lah looked at the droid. “Go ahead.”
“It has yet to be determined just what the Muun was
involved in. Suppose, however, that the nature of his
business is going to impact Bal’demnic in a negative way.
Should word spread that the crew of the Woebegone lent
their support to the Muun’s illegal departure, then what might become of the ship’s reputation in the Auril sector?
You may wish to include the worth of that in your
calculations regarding an arrangement for onward
passage.” Maa Kaap folded his arms across his barrel chest. “Is
our stowaway going to offer to set each of us up for life, in
case our services are no longer wanted in this sector?”
“What about what the Muuns can do to us if we don’t take
him,” Zuto said. “They’ve got a reach as long as a galactic
arm.” Wandau laughed without mirth. “What are they going to
do—downgrade our portfolios? Freeze our assets? Ruin
our credit rating? Our only assets are this ship and our
reputation for doing what we say we’re going to do.”
“Mostly,” Maa Kaap said quietly. PePe slapped his hands on his thighs. “Goes back to what I said about asking for a lot more than what he might
see as a fair price. These Banking Clan types hold on to
every credit. But we’ve got ourselves a live Muun, and no matter who he is or what he’s pretending to be, I guarantee
you he’s worth more than ten years of dealing in meattails
and octopods.” Maa Kaap broke the short silence. “Captain?”
“I’m not swayed by any of this,” she said after a moment.
“Iwant him off our hands.” A look of puzzlement tugged at Zuto’s features. “You think
he’s dangerous?” PePe ridiculed the idea. “Muuns are cowards, the lot of
them. They use credits as weapons.”
Lah took a long breath. “You asked for my gut reaction.
That’s what I’m giving you.”
“I’ve an idea,” Maa Kaap said. “A kind of compromise. We drop out of hyperspace and comm the authorities on Bal’demnic. If this Muun’s wanted, for whatever reason, we
return him, cargo or no. If not, we decide on a figure for
taking him to Ithor, and no farther.” He looked at Lah. “Are
you willing to take that deal to him? Captain?”
Lah responded as if her words had just caught up with
her thoughts. “All right. That sounds reasonable.” But she
remained seated.
“Do you, uh, want backup?” Wandau asked after another
long moment had passed.
“No, no,” she said, finally getting to her feet.
I’m the captain, 11-4D could almost hear her remind
herself. Focusing its photoreceptors, it observed her right
hand move discreetly to the blaster holstered on her hip. And with a flick of her thumb, she primed the weapon for
fire.
* * *
“We’re going to have to keep you on ice for a bit longer,”
Lah said when she entered the cargo bay. Plagueis hadn’t
moved from the container that served as his seat, but his
robe was parted and his hands rested on the tops of his
knees.
“Does that mean you failed to reach a consensus?”
“I wouldn’t go that far,” Lah said. “We’ve decided we
need to know who you are before we agree to provide you with passage. And since you seem reluctant to tell us, we’re
going to check with Bal’demnic.” Plagueis made his eyes dull with disappointment.
“Captain, I’ve told you all you really need to know.”
The Woebegone lurched slightly. “We’re dropping out of
hyperspace,” Lah said.
In his mind Plagueis heard Darth Tenebrous say: To we who dwell in the Force, normal life is little more than
pretense. Our only actions of significance are those we
undertake in service to the dark side.
“I can’t permit this, Captain,” he told her. Her expression hardened. “I’m afraid you’ll have to.” He had been aware from the start of the conversation
that her blaster was primed, and now her hand reached for
it. Sharp canines glinted in her slightly open mouth. Had he
truly believed that a deal could be arranged with the Woebegone’s hot-tempered and immature crew members? Their fates had been sealed from the instant
Plagueis had glimpsed the ship on the landing field. The
possibility of reaching any other conclusion was fictional.
From that first moment, all of them had been locked into an
inevitable series of events. The Force had brought them
together, into conflict. Even Lah must have sensed as much. Plagueis said: “Don’t, Captain.” But by then the warning was nothing more than words.
4: THE MEANING OF DEATH
The Woebegone had just reverted to realspace when 11-
4D’s audio sensors registered unusual sounds from aft: an
activation click, a prolonged hiss of energy, a dopplering
slash, a stuttering exhalation of breath. The sounds were
followed by a sudden outpouring of heat from the corridor
that accessed the cargo bays and what might have been
interpreted as a gust of wind. Only by adjusting the input
rate of its photoreceptors was the droid able to identify the
blur that raced into the cabin space as a male Muun
dressed in a hooded robe, trousers, and softboots that
reached his shins. Maa Kaap, PePe, Wandau, and Zuto turned in unison as
the Muun came to a momentum-defying stop a few meters
from where the four of them were seated. Clenched in his
right hand was a crimson-bladed energy device the droid’s
data bank recognized as a lightsaber—a weapon used
almost exclusively by members of the Jedi Order. And yet
the recognition prompted a moment of bewilderment. The
Jedi were known to be guardians of peace and enforcers
of justice, but the Muun’s comportment—the set of his long
limbs, the feral working of his jutting jaw, the yellow blaze in
his eyes—suggested anything but peace. As for justice, 11-
4D couldn’t retrieve a single instance of the four crew members having performed an offense that warranted
capital punishment.
The humming lightsaber dangling from his left hand, the Muun remained silent, letting his posture speak for his
nefarious intent. In turn the crew members, realizing that
they were being wrongly accused, clambered to their feet,
reaching at the same time for the weapons strapped to
their hips and thighs. That the Muun permitted them to do
so furnished 11-4D with yet another mystery—at least until
it realized that the Muun was merely courting combat.
The droid wondered what Captain Lah could possibly
have said or done to arouse so much wrath in the Muun. It
replayed the memory of her priming the blaster. Had she
decided that the problems the Muun presented for the Woebegone could best be solved by killing him, only to
have misjudged him entirely? Regardless, it was apparent
that the Muun believed the entire ship complicit in Captain
Lah’s actions, and had decided to take it upon himself to mete out retribution of the cruelest sort. 11-4D assumed
that this would include him, and instantly initiated a series of
redundant routines that would back up and store data, in
order to provide a record of what was about to occur.
The face-off tableau in the cabinspace had endured for
only a moment when Wandau, who had served as a
bodyguard for a celebrated Hutt, leapt into action, drawing
and firing his blaster even as he raced for cover behind one
of the bulkheads. A split second behind, Maa Kaap raised
his weapon and fired a continuous hail of blaster bolts at
the Muun. In the same instant Zuto and PePe, crouched low
to the deck, sprang forward in an attempt to outflank their
opponent and place him at the center of a deadly crossfire.
From the passageway that led to the cockpit came the
rapid footfalls of the pilot, Blir’, and the ship’s Dresselian
navigator, Semasalli. 11-4D knew that they had been monitoring cam feeds of the cargo bay, and thought it likely
that they had witnessed whatever sentence the Muun had
levied on Captain Lah.
The Muun’s reaction to the barrage of bolts that
converged on him required almost more processing power
than the droid had at its disposal. By employing a
combination of body movements, lightsaber, and naked
right hand, the agile sentient evaded, deflected, or returned
every shot that targeted him. Slowly surrendering energy,
the bolts caromed from the deck and bulkheads, touching
off alarms, prompting a switch to emergency illumination,
and unleashing cascades of fire-suppressant foam from the
ceiling aerosols. No sooner had the Balosar and the Dresselian entered the cabinspace than hatches sealed
the corridors, preventing any escape from the melee. Only
11-4D’s ability to calculate trajectories and react
instantaneously to danger kept it from being on the
receiving end of any of the numerous ricochets. Spying Blir’ and Semasalli, the Muun hurled the
lightsaber in a spinning arc that took off the Balosar’s
antenepalps and scalp and most of the wrinkled
Dresselian’s left shoulder, misting the already agitated air with teal-colored blood. As alarms continued to wail and
foam continued to gush, Blir’ folded and fell face-first to the
slickened deck, while Semasalli, screeching in pain,
collapsed to one side, reaching futilely for his severed arm
with the other.
The lightsaber had scarcely left the Muun’s grip when Wandau flew from cover to bring the attack to the Muun,
triggering his blaster as ceaselessly as Maa Kaap was still
doing. This time, though, the Muun merely stretched out his
right hand and absorbed the bolts. Traveling up the length
of his arm and across his narrow chest, the energy seemed
to fountain from the hand awaiting the return of the spinning weapon as a tangle of blue electricity that hissed from his
tapered fingers, catching Wandau full-on and lifting him to
the ceiling of the hold before dropping him to the puddled
deck in a heap, as if his bones had turned to dust.
In strobing red light, Maa Kaap’s eyes tracked the rise
and fall of his broken comrade. His blaster depleted, the
Zabrak drew a vibroblade from a belt sheath and launched
himself at the Muun, his large right hand intent on fastening
itself onto the Muun’s spindly neck.
The Muun caught the lightsaber, but instead of bringing it
to bear against Maa Kaap, he danced and twirled out of
reach of the vibroblade and commenced parrying the
Zabrak’s martial kicks and punches, until a side-kick to the
thorax drove Maa Kaap clear across the cabin and
slamming into the bulkhead. OneOne-FourDee’s audio
pickups registered the snap of the Zabrak’s spine and the
bursting of pulmonary arteries. Now Zuto and PePe dived at the Muun from both sides
and actually managed to get a hold on him. But it was as if
the Muun had turned to stone. The Kaleesh and the Quara
attacked with teeth and claws, but to no perceptible effect. And when the Muun had had enough of it, he positioned the
lightsaber directly in front of him and gyred in their grasp,
taking off PePe’s tusked face and Zuto’s blunt, whiskered
snout. OneOne-FourDee’s olfactory sensors detected an
outpouring of pheromones that signaled the death of the Kaleesh. Zuto, on the other hand—though gurgling blood
and moaning in pain—could perhaps be saved if treated in
time. Straightening out of a wide-legged stance, the Muun
deactivated the lightsaber and scanned the beings he had
killed and those he had maimed with chilling exactitude. His
yellow eyes fell on 11-4D, but only for an instant; then he
fixed the lightsaber to his belt and went quickly to his
nearest victim, who happened to be Doo Zuto. Dropping to
one knee alongside him, the Muun gazed intently at the Quara’s twitching body, but precisely at what the droid
couldn’t surmise. Zuto’s bulging marine eyes seemed to
implore his assailant for help, but the Muun did nothing to
stanch the flow of blood or offer palliative aid. He remained by the Quara’s side for a few moments,
then moved quickly to Maa Kaap, from whose crushed
chest cavity blood bubbled with each shallow breath. Again,
the Muun ran his eyes over his victim, from Maa Kaap’s
tattooed face to his large feet. Eyes closed, the Muun
adopted a posture that suggested intense concentration or meditation, and Maa Kaap snapped back to panic-stricken
consciousness. OneOne-FourDee tuned in to the Zabrak’s
pulse and found it regular—but only for a moment. Then the
rhythm of Maa Kaap’s heartbeat grew ragged and breaths
began to stutter from his lungs. Soon he was dead.
The Muun appeared to be frustrated, and his
disappointment increased on finding that Blir’ was
deceased, as well. He spent only moments appraising
Semasalli before going to Wandau, who was conscious
though obviously paralyzed from the waist down.
“You dishonor your heritage and your weapon, Jedi,” Wandau managed to say. “You could have used … the
Force to compel us to do as you wished. I’ve not only seen
that, but experienced it.”
The Muun’s face contorted in distaste. “If you’ve so little will,” he said in the tongue of Wandau’s species, “then
you’re of no use to me, Klatooinian.” And ended Wandau’s misery with a click of his thumb and middle finger. Gradually the spray from the ceiling abated and the
klaxons fell silent. His examinations completed, the Muun
stood and turned slowly to the droid.
“What name do you respond to?”
“OneOne-FourDee, sir.”
“Can you pilot this ship, OneOne-FourDee?”
“I can, sir.” The droid paused, then asked: “Do you wish me to relocate the survivors to medbay or jettison any of the
corpses?”
The Muun surveyed his handiwork. “Leave them.” He
shrugged out of his sodden robe and hung it over a chair,
revealing a second lightsaber affixed to his belt. “Captain
Lah remarked that you have medical capabilities.”
“I do, sir.”
Turning his back to 11-4D, the Muun stripped his
bloodstained tunic from his distended lower back. “Are you
capable of repairing this?”
The droid sharpened the focus of its photoreceptors and
olfactory sensors. “The wound shows signs of infection and
putrefaction, sir, but, yes, I can repair it.”
The Muun lowered the tunic and retrieved a comlink from
a pocket in the robe. Activating the device, he spent a moment inputting data, then turned the display so that 11-
4D could read it. “Set a course for these coordinates, then
attend to me in the captain’s quarters.”
“Anything else, sir?”
“Prepare food and drink. I’m famished.”
With the Woebegone traveling through hyperspace, Plagueis lay prone on the captain’s bunk, a bacta patch
covering the wound on his back, contemplating the results
of his attempts to prolong the lives of those crew members who had survived the altercation. Even where he had been
successful in effecting repairs to damaged blood vessels
and organs, the results had been temporary, as he had not
been able to influence or appeal to the midi-chlorians to
assist. Calling on the Force to mend ruptured arteries, torn muscle, or broken bone was no more difficult than levitating
slabs of stone. But such refurbishments had little effect on a
being’s etheric shell, which was essentially the domain of
the midi-chlorians, despite their physical presence in living
cells. Among the ship’s crew, the Togruta, Captain Lah, had
been the strongest in the Force, but she was beyond his
help by the time he reached her. Had it not been for
sloppiness on his part, owing to fatigue and blood loss, and
lightning-fast reflexes on hers, the lightsaber might simply
have pierced her neck and cervical spinal cord. But she
had spun at the moment of impact, and the crimson blade
had all but decapitated her. The Zabrak, too, had a slightly
higher-than-normal midi-chlorian count, but not high enough
to make him Force-sensitive. How different it had been to
observe the behavior of the Zabrak’s midi-chlorians
compared with those of Darth Tenebrous, only two days
earlier!
The Jedi routinely performed blood tests to verify the midi-chlorian counts of prospective trainees, but Plagueis
had passed beyond the need for such crude measurements. He could not only sense the strength of the
Force in another but also perceive the midi-chlorians that
individualized Forceful beings. It was that dark side ability
that had allowed generations of Sith to locate and initiate
recruits. The dispersal of midi-chlorians at the moment of
physical death was, for lack of a better term, inexorable.
Analogous to his fated confrontation with the Woebegone
crew, the moment of death appeared to be somehow fixed
in space and time. According to his Sith education, since Captain Lah and the others had been in some sense dead
from the moment Plagueis’s gaze had alighted on the
freighter, it followed that the midi-chlorians that resided in
alleged symbiosis with them must have been preparing to
be subsumed into the reservoir of life energy that was the
Force long before Plagueis had stowed away. His attempts
to save them—to prolong that state of symbiosis—were
comparable to using a sponge to dam a raging river. And
yet the Sith Lords of old were said to have been able to
draw on the energies released during death to extend their
own lives, as well as the lives of others. Unfortunately, much
like the technique of essence transfer, that ancient
knowledge had been lost.
Feeling the ship revert to realspace, Plagueis rose from
the bunk, dressed, and walked forward, stepping over the
corpses sprawled in the main cabin, the deck plates awash
in fire-suppressant fluid and blackening pools of blood, and
through passageways reeking of death. One of the crew members, the now one-armed Dresselian, was still alive
but comatose.
In the ship’s undermount cockpit the droid stood
motionless at the control console. Beyond the
transparisteel viewport myriad stars hung in space.
“Sir, we are approaching the coordinates supplied by
your comlink,” the droid said without turning from the view. Plagueis settled into the pilot’s chair, which barely
accommodated his long body. “How do you come to be
aboard the Woebegone, droid?”
“Formerly I served the needs of a medical facility on Obroa-skai.”
“In what capacity?”
“Research, in addition to performing a wide range of
surgeries on beings of diverse species.” Plagueis regarded the droid. “Thus, your many
appendages.”
“Yes, sir. But the ones I wear currently were retrofitted when I became the property of Captain Lah, so that I might
better serve the needs of the Woebegone.”
“And how did you become the captain’s property?”
“I believe, sir, that I was awarded to Captain Lah in place
of payments due for the receipt of certain merchandise. It is
also my belief that the exchange was meant to be
temporary—”
“But Captain Lah decided to keep you.”
“Yes, sir. She decided to keep me. I’m sorry to say that I
am at a loss to explain her reasons, and I never presumed
to ask.” Plagueis nodded. “That’s a good quality in a droid.”
“I understand how it could be, sir.”
“Tell me, droid, what is the possible consequence of low
theloxin levels in a Pau’an?” OneOne-FourDee didn’t hesitate. “One possible
consequence would be an elevation of the oxidation rate,
leading to the growth of an exophthalmic goiter, which in
turn would affect the production of roaamin from the anterior
lobes of the lutiaary gland.”
“And?”
“One result might be giantism, well beyond the Pau’an
norm.”
“If so?”
“The connecting ganglia making up the autonomic
nervous system and controlling glandular secretion might
induce an acceleration of the circular sphincter muscles of
the digestive tract, resulting in xerophthalmia.”
“So you are a diagnostician, as well.”
“In a minor capacity, sir.” Beyond the viewport, growing larger against the
backdrop of a behemoth ringed planet, a space station
turned in fixed orbit near a heavily cratered moon. A
hodgepodge of interconnected domed modules, the station
featured two long, boxy arms to which ships of varying size were tethered. Plagueis called data to the display screen of
his comlink and placed it in view of 11-4D.
“Transmit this code over the comm.”
The droid performed the task and waited at the comm
while the cockpit enunciators crackled to life.
“Unidentified freighter, Deep Space Demo and Removal
is in reception of your request. Give us a moment to
authenticate your transmission.”
“Holding fast while you authenticate,” Plagueis said.
“Freighter, you are cleared for docking,” the voice
returned a moment later.
“My ship,” Plagueis said, leaning forward to take hold of
the yoke. As a precaution, the station directed them to a berth at
the distal end of the larger of the two arms.
“You will accompany me into the landing bay,” Plagueis
told the droid when he had shut the ship down. “Raise the
boarding ramp behind us and activate the anti-intrusion
system. No one is to board the Woebegone unless I say
otherwise.”
“I understand, sir.” Waiting in the gloomy landing bay were a female Nikto
and a russet-colored young male Dug, backed by a motley
contingent of armed beings. Lowering the cowl of his robe
as he approached, Plagueis saw the Nikto stiffen and
signal those behind her to leave the area immediately.
“Magister Damask,” she began in Basic, “I had no
foreknowledge—” Plagueis cut her off. “This isn’t a social call.”
“Of course, Magister. Regardless, do you wish me to
apprise Boss Cabra of your visit?”
“Is he on station?”
“No, sir. But he can be reached by comm.”
“That won’t be necessary,” Plagueis said. “I’ll contact him
myself.”
“As you wish, Magister. What services can the station
provide?” Plagueis gestured in an offhanded way to the berthed
freighter. “This ship is to be sealed and slagged.”
“Without salvaging anything?” the Dug said. Plagueis looked at him. “I said sealed and slagged. Do
you need to hear it a third time?”
The Dug bared his teeth. “Do you know who you’re
talking to, Muun?” Plagueis cut his eyes to the Nikto. “Who is this callow
pup?”
“Pup?” the Dug repeated before the Nikto could
intervene.
“Boss Cabra’s youngest progeny, Magister,” she said
quickly, restraining the Dug with her extended left arm. “He means no disrespect.” Plagueis regarded the Dug again. “What are you called,
pup?”
The Dug’s rear legs were tensed for a leap, but the Nikto whirled rapidly, slapping him across his flewed and broadnostriled snout and clamping a hand on his windpipe.
“Answer him!” she bellowed into his snarling face. “And with due respect!”
The Dug relented and whimpered, though certainly more
out of humiliation than pain. “Darnada,” he squeaked at
last.
“Darnada,” Plagueis repeated before addressing the Nikto. “Perhaps young Darnada should be muzzled to
prevent him from endangering his father’s business
relationships.”
“His brashness reflects his inexperience, Magister,” the Nikto said in abject apology. She gave Darnada a menacing glance before continuing. “Trust that your orders
regarding the ship will be honored in full, Magister.”
“I will also need a change of wardrobe and a fueled,
piloted ship.”
“Can we provide the pilot with a destination
beforehand?”
“Muunilinst.”
“Of course, Magister. And what are your instructions
regarding the droid?”
“Instructions?”
“Is the droid to be slagged along with the ship?” Plagueis looked over his shoulder at 11-4D. “How much
of your memory can be wiped without tampering with your medical protocols?”
“I’m modular in design,” the droid said. “My memory
storage can be erased in its entirety or according to whatever parameters you establish.” Plagueis considered that. “Remain with the ship until it
has been liquefied. I will expect a complete audio-vid
recording.” OneOne-FourDee raised its right-side appendages in a
gesture of acknowledgment. “At your service, Magister Damask.”
5: HOMECOMING
Those fortunate enough to have visited Muunilinst in the
decades preceding the Clone Wars often remarked that
the planet had been blessed with the most beautiful skies in
the galaxy. To maintain that pristine blue realm—to prevent
it from being sullied by drop ships, shuttles, or landing craft —the Muuns had erected the most costly skyhook of its
kind anywhere outside the Core. As efficient as it was
luxurious, the skyhook, known affectionately as the
Financial Funnel, linked the orbital city of High Port with the
planetary capital, Harnaidan, which functioned as the nerve
center of the InterGalactic Banking Clan. While the stately
tower seemed to speak to the Muuns’ high regard for
aesthetics and ecology, its true purpose was to keep
visitors from setting foot on Muunilinst, thereby
safeguarding the planet’s wealth of resources and keeping
secret the lavish lifestyles of those who had ascended to
the top of the food chain.
From its remote corner of the Outer Rim, Muunilinst
exerted its influence across all of known space and halfway
to the galaxy’s nearest satellite star cluster. Dating back to
the founding of the Republic, the Banking Clan had funded
governments, supported settlements, and bankrolled
countless commerce guilds, trade corporations, and
shipping cartels. In a very real sense, the IBC dictated the
ebb and flow of wealth from the Core to the Outer Rim. Scarcely a building was raised on Coruscant without the Banking Clan’s approval; scarcely a starship left the yards
at Kuat or Bilbringi or Fondor without the IBC having
brokered the deal; and scarcely an election occurred on Corellia or Commenor without the Muuns having been
consulted.
The Muuns accomplished all these things with a meticulous serenity that belied the frenzied workings of
their mathematical minds. Save for when it came to
collecting on overdue debts, the Muuns, on first
acquaintance, appeared to be a stolid and lenient species,
if somewhat arrogant, with an ascetic nature that was in full
keeping with their willowy bodies and was reflected in the
simple but harmonious architecture of their cities. As pale as the Muuns themselves, High Port Space Center incorporated the design elements they favored most: domed interiors, arch-topped windows, fluted
columns, and unadorned friezes and entablatures. Among
these faux-stone building blocks large groups of Muuns maneuvered and mingled with unhurried if single-minded
purpose, maintaining a conversational clamor that struck
some visitors as reminiscent of the spoken language of
thinking machines. Attending them were droids of all
variety, and guest workers from the nearby worlds of
Bescane, Jaemus, Entralla, and others. On any given day a
visitor might spy envoys from Yagai, Gravlex Med, or Kalee,
along with Hutts of the Drixo or Progga kin. But what one
saw most, in overwhelming numbers, were members of the Banking Clan—financiers, accountants, lawyers—dressed
in their signatory Palo fiduciary garb: formfitting green
trousers and boots, round-collared green tunics, and flareshouldered green cloaks. Some were accompanied by
retinues of squat, dark-skinned, flat-nosed soldiers from the
planet Iotra, sporting garish body armor and carrying
ceremonial weapons.
That day, cutting through the verdant sea like some
predatory sea creature came a wedge-shaped cluster of
Muuns dressed in black cloaks and skullcaps, guarded by
a contingent of towheaded Echani warriors whose silver
eyes darted vigilantly, and whose metallic bodysuits masked the translucency of their skin. At the leading edge
of the wedge marched an elder Muun with a whiskered chin
and stooped shoulders, who was making directly for High
Port’s customs control station, where Hego Damask—as Plagueis was known to everyone but the late Darth
Tenebrous—and 11-4D were waiting, amid a contingent of
security personnel.
“We came as soon as High Port Immigration notified us,”
Larsh Hill said. “If you had contacted us from Deep Space Demolition, we could have sent a ship, rather than have you
rely on Boss Cabra’s specious hospitality.”
“No one seems to believe that I’m capable of finding my
own way home,” Damask said. Hill’s long face wrinkled. “I don’t understand.”
“It’s not important that you do. Suffice it to say that your
dispatching a ship would only have resulted in further
delay.” Like Hill and his coterie of half a dozen, Damask’s
hairless head was encased in a tight-fitting bonnet, and the
hem of his black cloak swept the polished floor.
“You were expected days ago,” Hill said, with a note of
exasperation.
“Events of an unforeseen nature prevented me from
returning earlier.”
“A successful journey, nevertheless, I assume.”
“You assume correctly.” Hill relaxed somewhat. “We shouldn’t tarry here any
longer than necessary. Transport is waiting.” At Hill’s gesture, the black-cloaked Muuns began to
angle toward the skyhook turbolifts, four of the silver-suited warriors falling in to flank Damask and the droid, which walked behind him.
“You’re limping,” Hill said in hushed urgency. “Are you
injured?”
“Healing,” Damask said. “Make no further mention of it.”
“We could postpone the Gathering—”
“No. It will take place as scheduled.”
“I’m relieved to hear that,” Hill said, “since several of your
guests are already in transit to Sojourn.”
The group was halfway to the turbolifts when a faction of
Banking Clan officials deliberately cut across their path,
forcing them to halt. The faction’s obvious leader, a Muun of middle age, separated himself from the rest and moved to
the front.
“Magister Damask,” he said. “What a surprise to
encounter you here, among the rabble.” Damask adopted a faint grin. “Excluding yourself, of
course, Chairman Tonith.”
Tonith stiffened. “We’re simply passing through.”
“As are we,” Damask said, motioning to Hill and the rest.
“You’ve been traveling, Magister?”
“A business trip, Chairman.”
“Of course.” It was Tonith’s turn to show a weak smile.
“But in that case perhaps you haven’t heard that the Senate
is on the verge of creating additional free-trade zones in the
Outer Rim Territories. Despite what I understand were
considerable efforts on your part to the contrary, the
shipping cartels face the danger of being broken, and even
if not, will certainly have to deal with fierce competition from
start-up companies. Both Core and Outer Rim worlds
should benefit greatly from the arrangement, wouldn’t you
agree?” Damask inclined his head in a bow of acknowledgment.
“I hadn’t heard, Magister. Whom can we thank for swaying
the liberals to adopt the amendment?”
“Among others, the Jedi Order lobbied successfully.”
“Then it must be for the best.”
“One would think,” Tonith said slowly. “Save for the fact
that, in exchange, the Trade Federation will now enjoy full
voting privileges in the Senate.”
“Ah, well. Appeasements of one sort or another always
figure into Senate affairs.”
Tonith leaned slightly toward Damask. “Thank you,
however, for suggesting that we invest in Outer Rim and
trans-Perlemian shipping. The results provided a windfall.”
“Where and when I can be of service, Chairman.”
Tonith straightened. “Your clan father would be proud.” Damask looked Tonith in the eye. “I take that as a
compliment.”
“How else would Imean it, Magister?” When the Banking Clan members had moved off and
Damask’s group was back in motion, Damask glanced at
Hill. “Someday we will topple the Toniths from their lofty
perch.” Hill smiled with his eyes. “I hope I’m alive to see that day.
And just so you know, Hego, your father would be proud. Chairman Tonith’s sarcasm notwithstanding.”
“You would know better than most.” Having arrived at the skyhook turbolifts, Hill was motioning everyone but himself and Damask into a
separate lift when Damask said, “The droid will ride with
us.”Hill appraised 11-4D as the three of them entered the
turbolift. “A new acquisition?”
“A door prize of sorts,” Damask said. Hill didn’t pursue it. “You’ll be going to your residence or
to Aborah?”
“Directly to the island. The droid will accompany me.”
“I’ll make the necessary arrangements.” Damask lowered his voice to ask, “Are we secure in
here?”
“Completely.” Damask turned to face the taller, elder Muun. “Rugess Nome is dead.”
“The Bith?” Hill said in astonishment. “How? Where?”
“Of no relevance,” Damask said, remembering.
“Eventually Nome’s estate will pass to us, but that won’t be
for some time to come, since it’s unlikely that his body will
ever be found.” Hill didn’t bother asking for details. “We’ll allow a
standard year to pass. Then we’ll petition the probate
courts to render a decision—at the very least for whatever
assets are contractually ours. You are the executor, in any
case, are you not?” Damask nodded. “Ultimately we’ll be liquidating most of
the estate. But there are several … antiques of a curious
sort I plan to retain. I’ll prepare an inventory. In the meantime I want you to familiarize yourself with a world
called Bal’demnic. Once you have, you’re to acquire mining
rights for the entire northeast peninsula of the principal
landmass. Purchase as much property as you can, from the
shoreline to the central highlands. I’ll provide you with
specific coordinates.” Uncertainty tugged at Hill’s strong features. “Are we
venturing into the mining business now?”
“When the time is right. Use intermediaries who can’t be
traced to us. I suspect that you will have to go all the way to
the top to secure what we need. The indigenes will be
troublesome to negotiate with, but I’m confident they can be
persuaded. Bargain like you mean it, but in the end spare
no expense.”
“Bal’demnic is that important?”
“A hunch,” Damask said. Descending rapidly, the skyhook turbolift pierced layers
of pure white clouds, revealing a curved panorama of
aquamarine ocean, pale brown plains, and evergreen
forest. And directly below, the view that was said to take
one’s breath away: the city of Harnaidan, studded with Neo- Classical structures as towering as the volcanic spires that
ringed it, and home to fifty million Muuns, living in an
urbanscape that was an orderly masterpiece of art and
design. To some, it was the antithesis of most planetary
capitals: the anti-Coruscant; the anti-Denon.
“What can we expect at the Gathering?” Damask asked,
turning away from the view.
“Gardulla has requested an audience.”
“I’m not in the habit of sitting down with Hutts.”
“She asks your help in mediating a dispute.”
“With whom?”
“The Desilijic clan.” Damask nodded knowingly. “This has been brewing for
some time. What else?”
“Representatives from Yinchorr will be there.”
“Good. Holotransmissions have their limitations.”
“Members of the Trade Federation and the Gran Protectorate will also be attending.” Damask snorted. “There’s no pleasing any of them.” He
grew pensive, then said: “There’s another small matter we
need to settle. Extend a personal invitation to the owners of
Subtext Mining.” Hill rubbed his whiskered chin. “I can’t recall having
engaged in dealings with them. Does this have anything to
do with Bal’demnic?” Damask ignored the question. “For a time they advised
Nome. Make certain they understand that we operate in
complete confidentiality.”
“If the Bith partnered with them, they must come highly
recommended.”
“One would think.” Damask turned his back to Hill to take
in the view once more. “But, in fact, I don’t see much future
for them.”
Unlike so many worlds that had been surveyed and settled
by species from the Core, Muunilinst had given rise to its
own brand of sentients. Farmers and fisherfolk, the ancient
Muuns hadn’t known how favored their planet was until
interstellar travel had become commonplace, and precious metals the backbone of the galactic economy. Had those
early millennia of expansion not been a time of peace, the Muuns might have lost what they had to military might; but
as it happened they had resisted all attempts at exploitation
and become masters of their fate. Still, what was an
economic blessing eventually became a burden. Once the Muuns understood the value of what they had previously
taken for granted, they held on to their riches with a
ferocious tenacity, and developed an almost agoraphobic
attachment to their homeworld.
In the midst of Muunilinst’s shallow oceans, the same
volcanic activity that had fertilized the vast plains belched
new seabed and precious metals enough to fuel the growth
of empires. Mountains heaped up through vents in the
planetary crust were found to be repositories of
extraordinary wealth. Lapped by warm waters teeming with
shellfish, tubeworms, and bioluminescent flora, such
“smokers,” as they were known, became both the source
and the financial vaults of Muunilinst’s most powerful and
prosperous clans. More remote than some, Aborah, which had been the
province of the Damask clan for several generations, was
otherwise typical of the dormant smokers whose thickly
forested conical peaks poked from the calm waters of the Western Sea. A maze of interconnected lava tubes ran
deep into the mountain island; waterfalls plunged from the
sheer heights; and incense trees scented the salty air of the
lowland valleys. Conveyed by speeder to Aborah’s north
tower complex, Plagueis escorted 11-4D on a tour of the
corridors and caverns that constituted his place of
sacrosanct solitude. Motioning to the many droids that were on hand to welcome the pair to Aborah, Plagueis said: “You will come
to find yourself at home here, as I have.”
“I’m certain I will, Magister Damask,” 11-4D said, its
photoreceptors registering a dozen different types of droids
in a single glance. Memo droids, GNK power droids, even
a prototype Ubrikkian surgical droid.
“In time we’ll see to having your original appendages
restored so that you can earn your keep.”
“I look forward to it, Magister.”
The tour began in the outermost rooms, which were
appointed with furnishings and objects of art of the highest
quality, gathered from all sectors of the galaxy. But
Plagueis was neither as acquisitive as a Neimoidian nor as
ostentatious as a Hutt; and so the ornamented chambers
quickly gave way to data-gathering rooms crowded with
audio-vid receivers and HoloNet projectors; and then to
galleries filled to overflowing with ancient documents and
tomes, recorded on media ranging from tree trunk
parchment through flimsiplast to storage crystal and
holocron. The Muuns were said to abhor literature and to
loathe keeping records of anything other than loan notices,
actuarial tables, and legal writs, and yet Plagueis was
guardian of the one of the finest libraries to be found
anywhere outside Obroa-skai or the Jedi Temple on Coruscant. Here, neatly arranged and cataloged and
stored in climate-controlled cases, was a collection of
treatises and commentaries accumulated over centuries by
the Sith and their often unwitting agents. Ancient histories
of the Rakata and the Vjun; texts devoted to the Followers
of Palawa, the Chatos Academy, and the Order of Dai
Bendu; archives that had once belonged to House Malreaux; annals of the Sorcerers of Tund and of Queen Amanoa of Onderon; biological studies of the ysalimiri and
vornskrs of Myrkr, and of the taozin of Va’art. Certain longlived species, like the Wookiees, Hutts, Falleen, and
Toydarians, were afforded galleries of their own. Deeper in the mountain were laboratories where Plagueis’s real work took place. Confined to cages, stasis
fields, bioreactors, and bacta tanks were life-forms brought
to Muunilinst from across the galaxy—many from the
galaxy’s most remote worlds. Some were creatures of
instinct, and others were semisentient. Some were
immediately recognizable to 11-4D; others resembled
creatures concocted from borrowed parts. Some were
newly birthed or hatched, and some looked as if they were
being kept at death’s door. More than a few were the
subjects of ongoing experiments in what seemed to be
vivisection or interbreeding, and others were clearly in
suspended animation. OneOne-FourDee noted that many
of the animals wore remotes that linked them to biometric monitoring machines, while others were in the direct care of
specialist droids. Elsewhere in the hollow of the mountain were sealed enclosures warmed by artificial light, aswirl with mixtures of rarefied gases and luxuriant with flora. And
deeper still were test centers crammed with complex
machines and glass-fronted cooling units devoted to the
storage of chemical compounds, alkaloids derived from
both plants and animals, blood and tissue samples, and
bodily organs from a host of species. Plagueis instructed 11-4D to wander about the galleries
and laboratories on his own, and then report back to him. Hours later the droid returned to say: “I recognize that you
are involved in research related to species durability and
hybridization. But I must confess to being unfamiliar with many of the examples of fauna and flora you have
amassed, and few of the arcane documents in your library.
Is the data available for upload?”
“Some portion of it,” Plagueis said. “The remainder will
have to be scanned.”
“Then the task will require standard years, Magister.”
“I’m aware of that. While there is some urgency, we are in
no rush.”
“I understand, sir. Is there specific data you wish me to
assimilate first?”
From the breast pocket of his cloak, Plagueis withdrew a
storage crystal. “Start with this. It is a history of the Sith.” OneOne-FourDee took a moment to search its memory.
“I have multiple listings under that heading. One defines the Sith as an ancient sect devoted to the study of the Force. Similar to the Jedi, but guided by different principles.”
“That’s close enough for now,” Plagueis said.
“Magister Damask, if Imay be so bold as to inquire: what
is our eventual goal?”
“The goal is to extend my life indefinitely. To conquer
death.”
The droid fixed Plagueis in its photoreceptors. “I have
access to data on alleged ‘elixirs of life’ and ‘fountains of
youth,’ Magister. But all living things ultimately die, do they
not?”
“At present, OneOne-FourDee.”
The droid thought harder about it. “I have experience in
organ replacement surgery, telomere genotherapy, and
carbonite suspension. But nothing beyond that.” Plagueis’s smooth upper lip curled. “Then you’ve merely
scratched the surface.”
* * *
With 11-4D deep in processing mode, Plagueis withdrew a
vial of his own blood and subjected it to analysis. Despite
the recent amplification of his powers he sensed that his midi-chlorian count had not increased since the events on Bal’demnic, and the analysis of the blood sample
confirmed his suspicions. Research had long ago
established that blood transfusions from Force-sensitive
individuals did not confer Force powers to recipients,
though blood with a high midi-chlorian count could grant
temporary strength and resiliency. Experiments in absolute
transfusion had gone horribly awry for recipients,
suggesting to some that the Force exacted a toll on those who attempted to tamper with it. An individual’s midichlorians seemed to know to whom they belonged and
become unresponsive outside their dedicated vessel. While midi-chlorians appeared to resist manipulation of
a sort that might imperil the balance of the Force, they
remained passive, even compliant, in the case of a weak- willed being manipulated by one who was strong in the
Force. Perhaps that explained why it was often easier to
call on the Force to heal someone other than oneself. Extending life, then, could hinge on something as simple as
being able to induce midi-chlorians to create new cells; to
subdivide at will, increasing their numbers into the tens of
thousands to heal or replace damaged, aging, or metastatic cells. Midi-chlorians had to be compelled to
serve the needs of the body; to bestow strength when
needed; to overcome physical insult, or prevent cells from
reaching senescence.
If one accepted the tales handed down in accounts and
holocrons, the ancient Sith had known how to accomplish
this. But had Sith like Naga Sadow and Exar Kun genuinely
been more powerful, or had they benefited from the fact that
the dark side had been more prominent in those bygone
eras? Some commentators claimed that the ability to
survive death had been limited to those with a talent for
sorcery and alchemy, and that the use of such practices
actually predated the arrival of the Dark Jedi exiles on Korriban. But sorcery had been employed less to extend
life than to create illusions, fashion beasts, and resurrect
the dead. Powerful adepts were said to have been able to
saturate the atmosphere of planets with dark side energy,
compel stars to explode, or induce paralysis in crowds, as Exar Kun apparently did to select members of the Republic Senate. Other adepts used sorcery merely as a means to
better understand ancient Sith spells and sigils. Darth Bane had referred to sorcery as one of the purest
expressions of the dark side of the Force, and yet he hadn’t
been able to harness those energies with near the skill as
had his onetime apprentice Zannah. Bane’s disciples,
however, believed that he had experimented with a
technique of even greater significance: that of essence
transfer, which he had learned after acquiring and
plundering the holocron of Darth Andeddu, and which
involved the relocation of an individual’s consciousness into
another body or, in some cases, a talisman, temple, or
sarcophagus. Thus had the most powerful of the ancient
Sith Lords survived death to haunt and harass those who would infiltrate their tombs.
But none of this amounted to corporeal survival. Plagueis had no interest in being a lingering,
disembodied presence, trapped between worlds and
powerless to affect the material realm except through the
actions of weak-minded beings he could goad, coax, or will
into action. Nor did he seek to shunt his mind into the body
of another, whether an apprentice, as Bane was thought to
have attempted, or some vat-grown clone. Nothing less
than the immortality of his body and mind would suffice. Everlasting life. Sadly he could glean only so much from the texts,
crystals, and holocrons stored in the library. Crucial
knowledge had been lost during the brief mastery of Darth
Gravid, and many of the most important elements of Sith
training since had been passed from Masters to
apprentices in sessions that had been left unrecorded. More to the point, Darth Tenebrous had had very little to say
regarding death. Alone in one of the test centers, surrounded by his
experiments—these things Plagueis could say he loved—
the enormity of what had occurred on Bal’demnic suddenly
rose up before him like a monolith of immeasurable
proportions. For the first time he could feel the Force of the
dark side not as a mere supporting wind, fluffing the sails of
a pleasure boat, but as a hurricane eager to loose a storm
of destruction on the crumbling Republic and the indolent
Jedi Order. A scouring storm that would lay waste to
everything antiquated and corrupt, and pave the way for a
new order in which the Sith would be returned to their
rightful place as the stewards of the galaxy, and before whom all the diverse species would bow, not only in
obeisance and fear, but in gratitude for having been drawn
back from the brink.
The task before him was at once invigorating and
daunting, and in the eye of that cycloning storm he could
hear the faraway voices of all those who had laid the
goundwork of the Sith imperative—the Grand Plan; those who had enlivened the hurricane with their breath and lives: Darths Bane and Zannah, and on down through the
generations that had included Cognus, Vectivus, Ramage,
and Tenebrous. One hundred years earlier, Tenebrous’s
Twi’lek Master had opened a small rend in the fabric of the
Force, allowing the dark side to be felt by the Jedi Order for
the first time in more than eight hundred years. That had
been the inauguration, the commencement of the revenge
of the Sith. And now the time had come to enlarge that rend
into a gaping hole, a gaping wound, into which the Republic
and the Jedi Order would to their own hazard be drawn.
6: THE HUNTERS’ MOON
An afternoon breeze carried the scent of fresh blood. Shrieks of agony and death pierced tendrils of mist
snagged by the gnarled branches of greel trees. The
reports of weapons—old and new, projectile and energy—
reverberated from the escarpment that walled the ancient
fortress to the west, behind which the system’s primary was
just now disappearing. As if some fantastic statuary
perched atop a place of worship, Magister Hego Damask
stood on the uppermost rampart, his black cloak fluttering,
attuned to the sounds of slaughter. And to the clamor of
parties of beings returning from their separate hunts, blood
of whatever color and consistency stirred by primal
violence, voices lifted in ancient song or throaty chant, the
gutted carcasses of their prey strapped to antigrav litters,
ready for roasting over bonfires that blazed in the fort’s
central courtyard, or for preservation by skilled taxidermists. Veermok, nexu, mongworst; krayt dragon, acklay, reek. Whatever their preference. A nod to the planet that had birthed it, the moon was
known as Sojourn, a name whispered by those who knew it
slightly, and even by those who had visited repeatedly over
the centuries. The system could be found in the registries,
but only if one knew where to look, and how to decipher the
data that revealed its location. Here, once every standard year, Damask and the dozen Muuns who made up Damask Holdings hosted a gathering
of influential beings from across the galaxy. Their names might be known to a few, but they were largely invisible to
the masses and could move among them unrecognized,
though they were responsible—in no small measure—for
events that shaped galactic history. They were conveyed to Sojourn in secret, aboard ships designed by Rugess Nome
and owned by Hego Damask. None came without an
invitation, for to do so was to risk immediate destruction. What they shared, to a being, was Damask’s belief that
financial profit mattered more than notoriety, politics, or
vulgar morality.
Founded generations earlier by members of the
InterGalactic Banking Clan, Sojourn had begun as a place
of relaxation for the clan’s wealthiest clientele. A perquisite
for those of exalted privilege. Later, under the management
of the elder Damask—Hego’s biological father—on his
retirement from chairmanship of the IBC, the moon had
become something else: a place where only the most
important players were brought together to exchange
ideas. It was on Sojourn that the galactic credit standard
had been established; the chancellorship of Eixes Valorum
first proposed; the makeup of the Trade Federation Directorate reorganized. Then, under Hego Damask, Sojourn became something else again. No longer a resort
or think tank, but an experiment in bolder thinking, in social
alchemy. A place to plot and strategize and wrench the
course of galactic history from the hands of happenstance. Where once Iotran Brandsmen had provided security, Damask’s contingent of silver-suited Echani Sun Guards
now held sway. At great expense, scarlet-wood greel tree
saplings had been smuggled from Pii III and planted in Sojourn’s modified soil. The forests had been stocked with
cloned game and exotic creatures; the ancient fort
transformed into a kind of lodge, with Damask’s very
important guests residing in purposefully crude shelters, with names like Nest, Cave, Hideaway, and Escarpment. All to encourage a like-mindedness that would end in
partnerships of an unusual sort. Damask remained on the rampart while the light waned
and darkness crept over the forested landscape. In the
grand courtyard below, the bonfire flames leapt higher and
the odors of charred meat hung thickly in the air. Wines and
other intoxicants flowed freely; Twi’lek and Theelin females
entertained; and the crowd grew rowdy. Each hunting party was required to display and butcher its prizes; to get limbs
and other appendages wet with blood. Not all beings were meat eaters, but even those who subsisted on grains and
other crops were drawn into the debauchery. At midnight
the guiding principles of the Republic would be mocked in
skits, and prominent Senators—save for those present—
would be subjected to ridicule. That Sith ceremonies and
symbols had been incorporated into the ceremonies and
the architecture of the fortress was Damask’s secret alone. Sensing the arrival of Larsh Hill and two other Muuns, he
swung from the parapet view.
“The Hutt has been waiting since starfall,” Hill said.
“The price of meeting with me,” Damask said. Hill gave him a long-suffering look. “If she didn’t know as much, she would be long gone.”
The Magister tailed the trio down a long flight of stone
steps and into a yawning reception area warmed by colorful
rugs, tapestries, and a grand fire. Gardulla Besadii the Elder, crime lord and notorious gambler, floated in on a
palanquin appropriate to her great size, attended by an
entourage that included her Rodian majordomo,
bodyguards, and others. Damask’s own guards were quick
to usher everyone but the Hutt back into the waiting room.
Larsh Hill and the two other dark-cloaked Muuns remained
at Damask’s side. Curled upright on her powerful tail, Gardulla extended her
bare, stubby arms toward the fire. “I’ve been admiring your
entertainers, Magister,” she said. “Particularly the Theelin
singers. Perhaps you could help me procure some.”
“We’ve a Twi’lek who supplies the females,” Damask
said from his armchair. “You’ll have to speak with her.” Gardulla noted the sharp tone in his voice. “On to
business then.” Damask offered a gesture of apology. “A busy schedule
affords me scant time for pleasantries.” Unaccustomed to straight talk, the Hutt frowned, then
said, “I plan to make a grab for Tatooine, Magister, and I’ve
come to solicit your support.”
“An arid world in the Arkanis sector of the Outer Rim,” Hill
supplied quietly from behind the armchair.
“By support, I presume we are talking about credits,” Damask said. Gardulla repositioned herself on the litter. “I’m aware that
you disapprove of spice and slavery, but there are profits to
be made on Tatooine by other means.”
“Not moisture farming, then.” Gardulla glowered. “You mock me.” Damask motioned negligently. “I tease you, Gardulla. I
know little about Tatooine, other than that the planet was
heir to an ecological catastrophe in the dim past, and that
its vast deserts now support a population of ne’er-do-wells,
scoundrels, and hapless spacers of all species. I’ve heard
it said that nothing pans out on Tatooine, and that beings who reside there age prematurely.” Damask knew, too, that the ancient Sith had once had an
outpost on Tatooine, but he kept that to himself.
“Fortunately, longevity comes naturally to my species,” Gardulla said. “But I don’t want for enemies of a different
sort, Magister. Enemies who would like nothing more than
to see me in an early grave.”
“The Desilijic clan.”
“They are precisely the reason I wish to remove myself
from Nal Hutta—and from the likes of Jabba Desilijic Tiure
and the rest. With your financial assistance I can
accomplish that. I know that you have befriended Hutts in
your own planetary neighborhood.”
“It’s true that Drixo and Progga have done well for
themselves on Comra,” Damask said, “but their successes
came at a high cost. What are you offering in return for our
investment?” A light came into the Hutt’s dark, oblique eyes. “A
Podrace course that will make those on Malastare and on
your own Muunilinst seem like amateur runs. In addition, the
renaissance of an annual Podrace event that will bring tens
of thousands of gamblers to Tatooine and fill my coffers to
overflowing.” She paused, then added: “And I’m willing to
take you on as a partner.”
“A silent partner,” Damask amended. She nodded. “As you wish.” Damask steepled his long fingers and raised his hands
to his jutting chin. “In addition to a percentage of the profits,
I want you to arrange for Boss Cabra to operate freely on Nar Shaddaa.” Gardulla adopted an incredulous look. “The Dug crime
boss?”
“You know the one,” Hill said sharply.
The Hutt fretted. “I can’t make promises, Magister. Black
Sun is deeply entrenched on Nar Shaddaa, and the Vigos
are grooming Alexi Garyn to assume control of the
organization. They may not appreciate or permit—”
“Those are our terms, Gardulla,” Damask cut in. “Find
some way to allow Cabra to reach an accommodation with
Black Sun and we will support your takeover of Tatooine.” He gestured toward the fortress courtyard. “This very night I
can arrange for you to meet with officials representing the Bank of Aargau, who will advance whatever amount of
credits you need.” After a long moment of silence, Gardulla nodded. “I
accept your terms, Magister Damask. You will not be
disappointed.” When the Hutt had steered her antigrav litter from the
room, members of the Sun Guard showed in a group of tall
reptilian sentients who stood on two thick legs and whose
broad snouts curved downward at the tip. Damask’s
previous contact with the Yinchorri had been limited to
holoprojector; now he leaned forward in keen interest as
the spokes-member introduced himself in gruff Basic as Qayhuk—secretary of the Council of Elders—and launched
immediately into a diatribe denouncing the Senate for
refusing to admit Yinchorr to the Republic. With bellicose
encouragement from his comrades, Qayhuk went on to say with fist-pounding emphasis that although their homeworld
had been charted hundred of years earlier by the Republic, Yinchorr remained an underprivileged, backrocket planet
deserving of far better treatment.
“Or someone will pay in blood for the ongoing injustice,”
the secretary warned.
Larsh Hill waited until he was certain that Qayhuk was
finished to remark under his breath, “I’m not sure even the Senate is ready for them.” Holding Qayhuk’s baleful gaze and motioning with his
hand, Damask said, “You have no interest in seeing
Yinchorr seated in the Senate.” Qayhuk took umbrage. “Why else would we have
journeyed all this way?”
“You have no interest in seeing Yinchorr seated in the Senate,” Plagueis repeated. Qayhuk glanced at his green-skinned brethren, then
looked at Hill. “Is Magister Damask deaf or in ill health?” Hill turned to Damask in concern but said nothing. Damask concealed his astonishment. As rumored, the
Yinchorri were apparently resistant to Force suggestion!
But how was it possible that midi-chlorians in a being of
relatively low intelligence could erect an impenetrable wall
against the influence of a Sith? Was this some sort of
survival mechanism—the midi-chlorians’ way of protecting
the consciousness of their vessels by refusing to be manipulated? He would need to possess one of these
beings to learn the secret.
“We might be willing to help you lobby for representation
in the Senate,” he said at last, “but the process could
require standard years or even decades, and I’m not
convinced you have the patience for it.” Qayhuk’s wide nostrils flared. “What’s a decade when we
have been patient for a century? Are we not sentients? Or
are we required to embrace the conditions along with
accepting them?” Damask shook his head. “No one is asking you to
applaud the arrangement.” Qayhuk’s expression softened somewhat. “Then we have
an accord?”
“We will draw up a contract,” Damask said. “In the meantime, I want some assurance that I can call on you for
a personal favor should the need arise.” Qayhuk stared at him. “A personal favor? Of what sort?” Damask showed the palms of his hands. “Of whatever
sort Irequire, Secretary.”
The Yinchorri and his brethren traded uncertain glances,
but Qayhuk ultimately nodded in agreement. “Done, Magister.”
“A favor?” Hill asked as the Yinchorri were being seen
out.
“Nothing more than a test,” Damask told him. Next to be admitted for audience were two Gran; the
larger of the pair, a Republic Senator named Pax Teem,
represented the Gran Protectorate. Teem had scarcely
taken a seat when he said, “Promise me, Magister Damask, that you haven’t entered into a deal withGardulla.”
“Our dealings with the Hutts,” Hill said, “are no less
confidential than our dealings with you, Senator Teem.”
The Gran’s trio of stalked eyes twitched in anger.
“Rumors abound of Gardulla’s plans to refurbish the Podrace course on Tatooine and enter into direct
competition with Malastare.” Damask regarded him blankly. “Surely you haven’t come
all this way to hear me address rumors.”
Teem worked his big jaw. “Promises were made, Magister.”
“And fulfilled,” Damask said; then, in a calmer voice, he
added, “As a means of offsetting losses in revenue derived
from Podracing, the cost of Malastare’s fuel exports could
be raised.”
The Gran ruminated. “That sounds more like a possibility
than a guarantee.” Damask shrugged. “We will take it up with the steerage
committee. But for now, consider it a starting point for
discussion.” Reclining in the chair, he appraised Teem
before saying, “What else is troubling you, Senator?”
“The favoritism you show to the Trade Federation.”
“We merely helped them secure full representation in the Senate,” Hill answered.
Teem grew strident. “The directorate was doing perfectly well for itself without full representation.And in exchange for what—surrendering some of the shipping monopoly they
enjoyed in the Outer Rim?”
“What’s fair is fair,” Hill said evenly.
Teem gave him a scathing glance. “Fairness has no part
in it. You’re interested only in having the directorate do your
bidding on Coruscant.” Abruptly, he got to his big feet and
ground his square teeth. “Even a rate hike for Malastare’s
fuel will profit Damask Holdings and the Trade Federation more than it will me!”
The Gran showed the Muuns his back and began to
stamp toward the door, leaving his aide to stir in confusion
for a moment, before he, too, rose and hurried out. Hill’s mouth was open in surprise. “He can’t—”
“Let him go,” Damask said.
The elder Muun compressed already thin lips. “If we’re to
benefit from the power they wield in the Senate, we’ll need
to find some way to placate them, Hego.”
“I disagree,” Damask said. “We need to find a way to
show Teem that he is expendable.” By the time the guards had ushered in the quartet of
Gossams who managed Subtext Mining, his ire had risen
so high in his throat he could taste it. Typical of their
diminutive species, the three saurians had reversearticulated legs, fish-shaped heads, and long necks
Damask knew he could snap with two fingers—and
perhaps would, for how they had double-crossed
Tenebrous.
“We were stunned to receive your invitation, Magister,” Subtext’s chief operating officer said. “We had no idea we were even on your scanners.” Damask smiled thinly. “We keep a close watch on
galactic events. I trust you’ve been enjoying our food and
entertainment?”
“More than you know, Magister,” the chief Gossam said with a meaningful laugh. “Or perhaps more than we care to
admit.” Damask forced a kindred laugh. “More than I
know … That’s very funny indeed.” He broke off laughing to
add, “Allow us to show you how we execute some of the
inner workings of the Gathering.”
The Gossams looked at one another in surprise before
their leader said, “We’d be honored.” Damask stood and nodded to four of the Sun Guards, who fell in alongside the Gossams as he, Hill, and two other Muuns led them to a bank of ancient turbolift cars.
“All the real action takes place below,” Damask said,
setting the car in motion with a wave of his hand.
In silence they descended two levels, and when the car’s
doors parted, they filed into a cavernous underground hall. Central to the dimly lighted space were several large
square platforms that could be raised by means of
hydraulic poles, operated by separate teams of sweating,
snuffling snub-nosed Ugnaughts. One platform, burdened with a slag heap of metal, was just descending, to sounds
of raucous cheering and wild applause entering through an
opening in the towering ceiling. Secured by manacles and
chains on an adjacent platform writhed a hissing, snarling,
fanged beast the size of a bantha.
“We’re directly beneath the central courtyard,” Damask
explained as the beast-laden platform was elevating. “Each
cargo symbolizes an abhorrent aspect of the Republic—
practices we all wish to see overturned.” By then the platform had been raised to the level of the
courtyard. The crowd quieted for a moment, then,
simultaneous with massive discharges of energy, erupted
into ovation once more.
“Those discharges were the laser cannons doing their work,” Damask said loudly enough to be heard as the
platform dropped back into view, revealing that what had
been the beast was now a smoking, foul-smelling husk of
sinew and bone. He aimed a sinister smile at the Gossams. “It’s all theater, you understand. Merriment for the masses.”
“Obviously a real crowd-pleaser, Magister,” one of the Gossams said, swallowing some of his words. Damask spread his thin arms wide. “Then you must join
in.” Approaching, he nodded his chin toward one of the
empty platforms, beside which the Sun Guards had
positioned themselves. “Climb aboard.”
The saurians stared at him.
“Go ahead,” Damask said, without humor now. “Climb
aboard.”
Two of the guards brandished blasters.
The chief Gossam looked from one Muun to the next,
terror widening his eyes. “Have we done something to
displease you, Magister?”
“A good question,” Damask said. “Have you?”
The chief Gossam didn’t speak until all four had
clambered up onto the platform. “Precisely how did we
come to your notice?”
“A mutual friend brought you to our attention,” Damask
said. “A Bith named Rugess Nome. You recently supplied
him with a survey report and a mining probe.”
The platform began to rise and the Gossams extended
their long necks in fear. “We can make this right!” one of
them said in a pleading voice. Damask eyed the ceiling. “Then be quick about it. The
laser cannons fire automatically.”
“Plasma!” the same one fairly shrieked. “An untapped
reservoir of plasma! Enough to provide energy to a
thousand worlds!” Damask signaled one of the Ugnaughts to halt the
platform’s rise. “Where? On what world?”
“Naboo,” the Gossam said; then louder: “Naboo!” Hill elaborated, though unnecessarily. “Something of a
hermit planet in the Mid Rim, and capital of the Chommell
sector. Relatively close to Tatooine, in fact. Once a source
for the veermoks we had cloned for use as game in the
greel forests.” Damask allowed him to finish and looked up at the Gossams. “Who hired you to conduct a mining survey?”
“A faction in opposition to the monarchy, Magister.”
“We swear it to be true,” another said.
“This Naboo is ruled by a royal?” Damask asked.
“A King,” the chief Gossam said. “His detractors wish to
see the planet opened to galactic trade.” Damask paced away from the platform. He considered
torturing the Gossams, to learn who had hired them to
sabotage Tenebrous on Bal’demnic, but decided to leave
that for another day, since the Bith was known to have had many adversaries. Turning finally, he ordered the Ugnaught
to return the platform to the floor.
“This plasma reservoir is as enormous as you claim?” he
demanded.
“Unique among known worlds,” the leader said in relief
as he and his comrades stood shivering in Damask’s withering gaze. Damask regarded them in silence, then swung to the
commander of the SunGuards. “Transport them to the most
remote world you can find in the Tingel Arm, and make
certain they remain there in the event I have further need of
them.”
Leaving his fellow Muuns to rest, Damask climbed the fort’s
eastern rampart for starrise. He was as weary as any of
them but too dissatisfied with the outcome of the Gathering
to find much comfort in sleep. On the chance that an
untapped reservoir of plasma might be of interest to the
disgruntled leadership of the Trade Federation—and
ignoring for the moment the effect it could have on Malastare’s energy exports—he had ordered Hill and the
others to learn everything they could about the planet
Naboo and its isolationist monarch. Once the Gossams of Subtext Mining had been dealt with, Damask and the Muuns had devoted the rest of the
evening to meeting with members of what they termed their
steering committee, which was made up of select
politicians, lobbyists, and industrialists; financiers
representing Sestina, Aargau, and the Bank of the Core;
elite members of the Order of the Canted Circle and the
Trade Federation Directorate; and gifted ship designers,
like Narro Sienar, whom Plagueis planned to support in his
bid to become chief operating officer of Santhe/Sienar
Technologies. The committee met periodically, though
seldom on Sojourn, to assure the swift passage of
corporate-friendly legislation; fix the price of such
commodities as Tibanna gas, transparisteel, and starship
fuel; and keep Senators in place on Coruscant as career
diplomats, as a means of distancing them from what was
really taking place outside the Core. Not everyone agreed that the Muuns’ strategy of “tactical
astriction” was the best method for keeping the Republic
off-balance and thus ripe for manipulation. But Damask had
insisted that their common goal of oligarchy—government
by a select few—would eventually be realized, even if
attained as a result of actions and events few would
observe, and about which some of the membership might
never learn. Starlight glinted from the hulls of the last of the departing
ships. Damask took comfort in knowing that his guests
believed they had taken part in something secretive and
grand, and had been encouraged to execute campaigns
that on the surface may have seemed informed by selfinterest but were in fact bits of Sith business. Movements in the symphony that was the Grand Plan—
Keening klaxons fractured the morning silence. Damask’s eyes narrowed and swept the surrounding
forests for signs of disturbance. He had moved to the
southernmost parapet when two Sun Guards hurried up the
stairs in search of him.
“Magister, the eastern perimeter has been breached,”
one of them reported. Outside the fort’s walls, illumination was coming up and
drone ships were beginning to meander through the
treetops. Occasionally one of the imported beasts would
lumber into the safe zone, touching off the alarms, but none
of the remote cams were showing evidence of intrusion.
“It’s possible that one of our guests may have overstayed
his or her welcome,” the second Sun Guard said. He
stopped to listen to a message being relayed to his helmet
earphones. “We think we have something.” He looked at
Damask. “Will you be all right, Magister, or should we wait with you?”
“Go,” Damask told them. “But keep me informed.” Stretching out with his feelings, he began to scan the
forest again. Someone was out there, but not in the area
the guards were searching. He attended through the Force
to the sound of movement in the trees. Had the Gran
infiltrated an assassin? If so, had they found one clever
enough to divert the Sun Guards into chasing an illusion?
Damask and the other Muuns should have been the targets,
but instead of moving toward the fort, the intruder was
actually moving away from it. He spent another long moment listening; then, like a wraith, he dashed down three flights of stone steps and out
through the old gate into the waking forest, parting his cloak
as he ran, his left hand on the hilt of the lightsaber. Lifting off
in great numbers from their evening roosts and screeching
in displeasure, the morning’s earliest risers warned the rest
that a hunter was on the loose. Of the most dangerous sort, Damask might have added: a hunter of sentients. In moments he was deep in a stand of old-growth greel trees well outside the security perimeter, when he sensed
something that stopped him in mid-stride. Motionless, he
drew inward in an effort to verify what he’d felt. A Force-user!
A Jedi spy? he wondered.
They had tried repeatedly to penetrate Sojourn’s
defenses during previous Gatherings. But unless one had
arrived in a ship designed and built by Darth Tenebrous,
there would have been no way to reach the surface
undetected. And yet someone had obviously succeeded in making it downside. Lifting his hand from the hilt of the
lightsaber, Damask minimized his presence in the Force,
surrendering his eminence and disappearing into the material world. Then he began to move deeper into the
forest, winding his way through the trees, allowing the Jedi
to stalk him even as he berated himself for having acted
rashly. If it came to ambush, he would not be able to fight
back and risk exposing himself as a Sith. He should have
allowed the SunGuards to deal with the intruder. But why would a Jedi bother to trip the perimeter sensors
only to retreat beyond their reach? They didn’t make
mistakes of that sort. And surely whoever was out there wouldn’t have expected a Muun to respond, if for no other
reason than Muuns didn’t make mistakes of that sort. So what was this one after?
Ahead Damask heard the characteristic hiss and hum of
a lightsaber, and saw the weapon’s blade glowing in the mist. Emerging from behind a thick-boled tree, the wielder
had the lightsaber in his right hand, angled toward the
spongy ground. A crimson blade in a crimson wood.
Instantly he called his own lightsaber to his left hand,
igniting the blade as the figure in the mist revealed itself
fully: a tall, thin, pink-skinned craniopod with large lidless
eyes—
A Bith!
Tenebrous?
He faltered momentarily. No, that wasn’t possible. But who, then? Tenebrous’s offspring, perhaps—some spawn
grown from his genetic material in a laboratory, since the
species reproduced only in accordance with the dictates of
a computer mating service. Was that why Tenebrous had
declined to discuss midi-chlorians or ways of extending
life? Because he had already found a way to create a
Force-sensitive successor?
“I knew I could draw you out, Darth Plagueis,” the Bith
said. Plagueis dropped all pretence and faced him squarely.
“You’re well trained. I sensed the Force in you, but not the
dark side.”
“I’ve Darth Tenebrous to thank for it.”
“He made you in his image. You’re a product of Bith
science.”
The Bith laughed harshly. “You’re an old fool. He found
and trained me.” Plagueis recalled the warning Tenebrous had nearly
given voice to before he died. “He took you as an
apprentice?”
“I am Darth Venamis.”
“Darth?” Plagueis said with disgust. “We’ll see about
that.”
“Your death will legitimize the title, Plagueis.” Plagueis cocked his head to the side. “Your Master left
orders for you to kill me?”
The Bith nodded. “Even now he awaits my return.”
“Awaits …,” Plagueis said. As astonishing as it was to
learn that Tenebrous had trained a second apprentice, he
had a surprise in store for Venamis. Inhaling, he said,
“Tenebrous is dead.” Confusion showed in Venamis’s eyes. “You wish it were
so.”Plagueis held his lightsaber off to one side, parallel to the
ground. “What’s more, he died by my hand.”
“Impossible.” Plagueis laughed with purpose. “How powerful can you
be if you failed to sense the death of your Master? Even
now, your thoughts fly in all directions.” Venamis raised his lightsaber over one shoulder. “In
killing you I will avenge his death and become the Sith Lord
he knew you could never be.”
“The Sith he wanted me to be,” Plagueis corrected. “But
enough of this. You’ve come a long way to challenge me. Now make a worthy effort.” Venamis charged.
To Plagueis, lightsaber duels were tedious affairs, full of wasted emotion and needless acrobatics. Tenebrous,
however, who had pronounced Plagueis a master of the art,
had always enjoyed a good fight, and had clearly
bequeathed that enthusiasm to his other trainee. For no
sooner had the blades of their weapons clashed than Venamis began to bring the fight to him in unexpected ways, twirling his surprisingly limber body, tossing the
lightsaber from hand to hand, mixing forms. At one point he
leapt onto an overhanging greel branch and, when Plagueis
severed it with a Force blow, hung suspended in the air—
no mean feat in itself—and continued the fight, as if from
high ground. Worse for Plagueis, Tenebrous had made Venamis an expert in Plagueis’s style, and so the Bith
could not only anticipate but counter Plagueis’s every move.
In short order, Venamis penetrated his defenses, searing
the side of Plagueis’s neck.
The contest took them backward and forward through the
trees, across narrow streams, and up onto piles of rocks
that were the ruins of an ancient sentry post. Plagueis took
a moment to wonder if anyone at the fort was observing the
results of the contest, which, from afar, must have looked
like lightning flashing through the forest’s understory. Realizing that the fight could go on indefinitely, he took
himself out of his body and began working his material self
like a marionette, no longer on the offensive, instigating
attacks, but merely responding to Venamis’s lunges and
strikes. Gradually the Bith understood that something had
changed—that what up until then had been a fight to the
death seemed suddenly like a training exercise. Exasperated, he doubled his efforts, fighting harder, more
desperately, putting more power into each maneuver and
blow, and in the end surrendering his precision and
accuracy. At the height of Venamis’s attack, Plagueis came back
into himself with such fury that his lightsaber became a
blinding rod. A two-handed upward swing launched from
between his legs caught Venamis off guard. The blade
didn’t go deep enough to puncture the Bith’s lung but
scorched him from chest to chin. As his large, cleft head
snapped backward in retreat, Plagueis brought his
lightsaber straight down, tearing Venamis’s weapon from
his gloved hand and nearly taking off his long fingers, as well. With a gesture of his other hand, Venamis called for his
lightsaber, but Plagueis was a split second quicker, and the
hilt shot into his own right hand. Sensing a storm of Force
lightning building in the Bith, he crossed the two crimson
blades in front of him and said: “Yield!” Venamis froze, allowing the nascent storm to die away,
and dropped to his knees in surrender as Sojourn’s risen
primary blazed at his back through the trees.
“I submit, Darth Plagueis. I accept that I must apprentice myself to you.” Plagueis deactivated Venamis’s blade and hooked it to
his belt. “You presume too much, Venamis. Around you I would always have to watch my back.” Venamis lifted his face. “Is it true, Master? Is Darth
Tenebrous dead?”
“Dead, and deservedly so.” He took a step toward
Venamis. “The future of the Sith no longer hinges on
physical prowess but on political cunning. The new Sith will
rule less by brute force than by means of instilling fear.”
“And what is to become of me, Master?” Venamis
asked. Plagueis studied him stonily. After a quick glance
around, he snapped a yellow, horn-shaped blossom from a
dangling vine and tossed it to the ground in front of
Venamis. “Consume it.” Venamis’s gaze went from the flower to Plagueis, and he
let misgiving show on his face. “I know this plant. It will
poison me.”
“It will,” Plagueis told him in a manner that held no
sympathy. “But Iwill make certain you don’t die.”
7: THERE WHERE THEY USED TO
STAND
In the depths of Aborah, Venamis hung suspended in a
bacta tank, wireless sensors affixed to his narrow chest,
neck, and fissured, hairless cranium.
“You may be Tenebrous’s most important gift to me,” Plagueis said as he watched the Bith’s body bob in the
thick therapeutic liquid.
“His brain continues to recuperate from the effects of the
coma-bloom alkaloids,” 11-4D remarked from the far side
of the laboratory. “His physical condition, however, remains
stable.” Plagueis kept his gaze on Venamis. The wound
Venamis’s lightsaber had inflicted to Plagueis’s neck had
healed, but the faint scar was a fresh reminder of his mortality. “That’s good, because I’m not interested in his mind.”
In salute, the droid’s new appendages made a surgical
slashing motion. Blood analysis had revealed a high midi-chlorian count, which to Plagueis was further indication that a being could
have great potential in the Force and yet still be inept. He wondered: was it Venamis he had felt through the Force
after the murder of Tenebrous? A Jedi would have made
for a more interesting experimental subject, but a Dark
Side Adept was perhaps better suited to his purposes. And
soon enough the adjacent bacta tank would contain a
Force-resistant Yinchorri, as well.
Immediately following the contest on Sojourn, Plagueis
had commanded members of the Sun Guard to locate the
starship that had allowed Venamis to infiltrate the Hunters’ Moon, then move it and the poisoned Bith to Aborah. Larsh
Hill and the other Muuns had been apprised that an intruder
had been captured and disposed of, but no more than that. An investigation of the ship had yielded data that might
have surprised even Darth Tenebrous, who had provided
the ship. It seemed that well before he had confronted
Plagueis or learned of his Master’s fate, Venamis himself
had been scouting for potential apprentices. Plagueis could
not help being impressed, though begrudgingly. The young
Bith would have done well in Bane’s era. Now, however, he was an anachronism, and by extension, Tenebrous also.
That Tenebrous had targeted him came as no shock to Plagueis. He and the Bith had reached an impasse
decades earlier regarding execution of the Sith imperative.
The product of one of the galaxy’s most ancient
civilizations, Tenebrous believed that victory could be
achieved through a mating of the powers of the dark side
and expert Bith science. With the aid of sophisticated
computers and future-casting formulas, the varied beings of
the galaxy could be provided for, and the Jedi Order would
gradually dwindle and disappear. Tenebrous had tried to
persuade Plagueis that the Force did not play games of
chance with the galaxy; and that while the fated ascendancy
of the dark side could be predicted, its rise could not be
influenced or hurried by the Sith.
The Muuns believed in formulas and calculations as
strongly as the Bith did, but Plagueis was not a fatalist. Convinced that Tenebrous’s brilliant equations were missing an important factor, he had argued that future
events—whether predicted by machines or glimpsed in
visions—were often clouded and unreliable. More
important, he had been raised to believe in the elimination
of competitors, and viewed the Jedi as just that. The Order wasn’t simply some rival corporation that could be secretly
acquired; it had to be undermined, toppled, and
dismantled. Deracinated. He had assumed that, given time,
he would have been able to win Tenebrous over, but his
former Master had obviously pronounced him unfit to don
the mantle of Sith successor, and had looked elsewhere.
The unbridled desires of sentients were a blessing to the Sith, for those desires birthed an abundance of zealous
and audacious beings who could be used to further the
cause. Plagueis had been instructed to be on the lookout
for suitable beings, just as Tenebrous had been when he
had discovered Venamis. Perhaps Tenebrous had
regarded the sneak attack as beneficial, no matter the
results. Had Venamis been victorious, he was deserving of
the mantle; and if not, then Plagueis might come to accept
the true nature of the Master–apprentice relationship. An old story that had never made much sense to him. But it did explain Tenebrous’s curious behavior in the months and weeks preceding the events on Bal’demnic. It was impossible to know how long Venamis’s attack had
been in the planning, but Tenebrous, for all his cool
detachment, had plainly worried over the decision. On Bal’demnic he had been distracted, and that inattention
had cost him his life. But in those final moments, before he
had fully grasped the role Plagueis had played, he had
been on the verge of revealing the existence of Venamis. It made little difference now, and, in fact, Plagueis found the Bith’s vacillation contemptible.
Like Plagueis, Tenebrous had obviously embraced the
fact that Darth Bane’s Rule of Two had expired. Precious
few Sith Lords had honored it, in any case, and with good
reason, as Plagueis saw it. The goals of the Grand Plan were revenge and the reacquisition of galactic power. But while most Sith Lords since Bane had in their own fashion
helped to weaken the Republic, their efforts had owed less
to selflessness and allegiance to the Rule than to weakness
and incompetence. Driven to discharge Bane’s imperative
they might have been, and yet each had fallen prey to
individual foibles and eccentricities, and so had failed to
exact revenge on the the Jedi Order. Plagueis understood. He would never have been one to lay in wait or devote his
reign merely to positioning a subsequent Sith Lord for
success. Nor would he have been content to remain in
Tenebrous’s shadow as an apprentice had the Bith actually
triumphed where others had failed. How, in all his wisdom, had Tenebrous failed to grasp
that Plagueis was the culmination of the millennium-long
hunger for revenge? How had the Bith failed to grasp that
destiny had called him?
In a rare moment of compliment, the Bith had even said
as much.
In the same way that tectonic forces cause a boulder to
plunge into a river, forever diverting its course, events
give rise to individuals who, stepping into the current of
the Force, alter the tide of history. You are such a one. Was Plagueis now to believe that Tenebrous had also
considered Venamis such a one?
If so, it demeaned him.
The data discovered aboard Venamis’s starship failed to
shed light on how old he’d been when Tenebrous found
him, or reveal anything about his training. Set ways of
training an apprentice were a thing of the past, regardless. Doctrine was for the Jedi. Where the Jedi courted power,
the Sith lusted after it; where the Jedi believed they knew
the truth, the Sith possessed it. Owned by the dark side,
they ultimately became their knowledge.
For the past five hundred years, the Sith of the Bane line
had eschewed selecting children as apprentices, finding it more advantageous to discover beings who had already
been hardened or scarred by life. Plagueis, though, had been an exception.
Muunilinst had not followed suit when, in the madness that was the Third Great Expansion, worlds of the Core and the
Inner Rim had stretched out to settle and claim many of the
planets surveyed and made available by the Colonization Act and the Planet Grant Amendment. The reason was
simple: though the Muuns had wealth beyond the wildest
dreams of many species and access to starships of the
highest quality, they were unwilling to leave their holdings
on Muunilinst unattended. Nor were they interested in
colonization for its own sake—in spreading their seed—
because the more Muuns the galaxy contained, the less wealth there would be to go around. Eventually, though, autarky and isolationism ceded to a
desire to make themselves essential to the galaxy, and the Muuns began to fund settlements established by other worlds, or by independent groups, self-exiled as often as
not. And so colonies at the distal end of the Braxant Run
became dependent on Muunilinst for support, borrowing
against the promise of discovering rich veins of ore or
precious metals. When, however, the purported treasures
failed to materialize, or markets became saturated,
resulting in lower prices, the careworn populations of those
settlements found themselves hopelessly indebted to Muunilinst and were forced to accept direct oversight by the Muuns.
So it happened that Plagueis’s clan father, Caar Damask, came to be administrator of the treasure world of
Mygeeto.
Located in Muunilinst’s own stellar neighborhood, and a
fertile breeding ground for nova, artesian, and low-level
Adegan crystals, Mygeeto—Gem, as it was known in the
ancient Muun tongue—was also one of the least hospitable worlds the Muuns had acquired. Captive to snow and ice,
the planet boasted few indigenous life-forms and was
continually assailed by storms that mounded its surface into
crystal spurs the size of mountains. Regardless, and at
great expense, the Muuns had succeeded in constructing a
few self-contained cities and storage vaults, powering them
with energy derived from the crystals themselves. Even in
the best of instances Mygeeto was a challenge to approach
because of its asteroid ring, but the asteroids became
secondary impediments once the InterGalactic Banking
Clan assumed control of mining operations in the ice
shelves and glaciers. Then even the Jedi were prohibited
from visiting without prior authorization. Already a member of long standing in the IBC, the elder Damask had accepted the assignment as a personal favor
to Muunilinst’s High Officer, Mals Tonith, but more in the
hope of advancing a career that had stalled and kept him
confined to middle management. Unrecognized for his
genius and angry about it, Damask had left his primary wife
and clanmates behind and had attempted to build if not a
life then at least a career for himself on the remote ice world. Success in supervising the mining operations came
in short order, but contentment, of any sort, proved elusive
until the arrival—ten years after his own—of a lower-caste Muun female who would first become his assistant, then his
codicil wife, in due course giving birth to a son they named
Hego, after Caar’s clan father. His upbringing in a domed city in a perpetually frozen
environment was in many ways the antithesis of the typical
Muun childhood, and yet young Hego managed not only to
endure but to prosper. His mother took what some
considered to be an unhealthy interest in his development,
recording every detail and encouraging him to share even
his most furtive thoughts with her. She was especially
interested in observing his interactions with playmates—of
diverse species—which she was never at a loss to provide,
interrogating him after every session about his feelings
about this or that youngling. Even Caar found time enough
from a demanding schedule to be a doting parent. Hego was not yet five years old when he began to sense
that he was somehow different. Not only was he more
astute than his playmates, but he could often manipulate
them, arousing laughter when he wished to, or just as often
tears; comfort just as often as anxiety. He learned to read
intentions and body language. When he sensed that
someone didn’t like him he would go out of his way to be
generous, and when he sensed that someone liked him too much he would occasionally go out of his way to be difficult,
as a means of testing the limits of the relationship. He
divined tricks and deceits, and sometimes allowed himself
to play the victim, the dupe, out of concern for arousing
unwanted suspicion or being forced to reveal too much
about his hidden talents. As his abilities increased, other children became
playthings rather than playmates, but with no loss of
enjoyment on Hego’s part. One afternoon a Muun youngster
he had grown to dislike pushed his way past Hego in an
effort to be first to reach a staircase that led down to the Damask home’s lower-level courtyard. Grabbing his peer
by the upper arm, Hego said, “If you’re in such a rush to get
downstairs, then jump out the window.” Locking glances, Hego repeated the suggestion, and his victim took it to
heart. Many questions were asked after the youngling’s
broken body was discovered in the courtyard, but Hego
kept the truth from everyone but his mother. She made him
go over his explanation in increasing detail, until finally
saying, “I’ve long suspected that you have the gift your
father and I share, and now I know it to be true. It’s a
strange, wondrous power, Hego, and you have it in
abundance. Your father and I have spent our lives keeping
our gifts a closely guarded secret, and Iwant your word that
for the time being you will speak of it only to me or to him.
Later in life this power will serve you well, but right now it must remain undisclosed.” Having lived a surreptitious life for so many years, Hego
found the notion of sharing the secret only with his parents
completely natural.
No one held him responsible for his playmate’s plunge
from the window, but, soon after, the steady stream of
playmates began to dry up. Worse, his father began to
grow distant—even while Hego found himself becoming more and more a part of Caar’s world. He considered that
his father might be lying about having the power, or had
come to think of Hego as some kind of monster. And yet he
observed his father employing his eldritch powers of
persuasion and manipulation in business dealings.
Like Muunilinst, Mygeeto received many important
visitors, and at times it struck Hego that, in lieu of his being
able to explore the galaxy, the galaxy was coming to him. On several occasions, his father met with Jedi Knights and
Padawans who came in search of Adegan crystals, which
the Jedi Order used in the construction of training
lightsabers. Hego had long since perfected his ability to mask his powers from others. Even without revealing his
true nature to the Jedi he was able to sense in them a kind
of like-minded power, though one that was clearly at cross
purposes with his own. From early on he knew that he could
never be one of them, and he began to abhor their visits, for
reasons he couldn’t grasp. Even more puzzling, he came to
sense a power closer to his own in a Bith visitor named
Rugess Nome. Nome wasn’t a Jedi but a starship
engineer, who arrived in a luminous vessel of his own
design. Before long, however, Hego began to suspect that
his mother was the reason for Nome’s frequent visits. And
the suspicion that there was something between them
incited feelings of anger and jealousy in young Hego, and a
kind of conflicted despondency in his father. Hego had made up his mind to bring his power to bear
on the intolerable situation when, during one of Nome’s
visits, he was summoned to his father’s office, where Caar,
his mother, and the Bith were waiting. Without looking at his wife, Caar had said, “You are of our blood, Hego, but we
can no longer raise you as our progeny.” Hego had looked from his father to his mother in mounting distress, fearing the very words Caar added a moment later. With a nod toward Nome, he said, “In truth,
and in ways that you will eventually come to understand, you
belong to him.” A decade later, Hego would learn that while Caar had, in
fact, done his best to keep his Force abilities to himself, he
had come to the attention of Nome when the two had
chanced to meet on High Port Space Center. Years would
pass before Nome found Hego’s mother, whom he had
conscripted not as an apprentice—for she wasn’t strong
enough in the Force—but as a disciple, whose task it had
been to romance Caar and bear the fruit of that seduction:
a child whom Nome and Bith science predicted would be
born strong in the Force. Hego’s parents had safeguarded
the secret until his power had begun to reveal itself. And
then a deal had been brokered: Hego, in exchange for the
realization of Caar Damask’s lifelong dream of being
accepted into the upper echelon of the InterGalactic Banking Clan.
Five years after the revelation in the office, Caar was
recalled to Muunilinst to become director of the treasury
branch of the IBC. Hego’s mother vanished, never to be
seen again by either husband or son. And Hego’s
apprenticeship to Sith Lord Darth Tenebrous commenced.
In addition to being widely respected as a savant engineer
and starship designer, Rugess Nome headed a shadowy
organization that over the decades had gathered
intelligence on the dealings of nearly every criminal,
smuggler, pirate, and potential terrorist who had left a mark
on the galaxy. With young Hego masquerading as Nome’s
accountant, the two secret Sith had traveled widely, often
conspiring with the galaxy’s most notorious beings, and
facilitating anarchy whenever possible. We Sith are an unseen opposition, Tenebrous had told
his young apprentice. A phantom menace. Where the Sith
once wore armor, we nowwear cloaks. But the Force works
through us all the more powerfully in our invisibility. For
the present, the more covert we remain, the more
influence we can have. Our revenge will be achieved not
through subjugation but by contagion. As Tenebrous explained it, the Jedi had emerged strong
from the war of a millennium earlier, and while Darth Bane
and subsequent Sith Lords had done their best to disrupt
the reborn Republic, they labored at a disadvantage. So
eventually it was decided that the Sith should hide in plain
sight, amassing wealth and knowledge, and securing
contacts and alliances with groups that would one day form
the basis of a galaxywide opposition to both the Republic
and the revered Order that served it. By all accounts those
early centuries had been challenging, watching the Jedi
return to their eminent position. But the Sith had had the
luxury of studying the Order from afar without the Jedi ever
being aware that they had adversaries.
The rend that Tenebrous’s Twi’lek Master had opened in
the fabric of the Force had been felt by the Jedi, and
already the Order was beginning to show signs of
circumspection and languor. The Republic, too, had been
similarly undermined, by encouraging corruption in the Senate and lawlessness in the Outer Rim systems, which
had become the dumping grounds for the Core. With the wretched of the galaxy being converted to the
cause, the powerful would now need to be brought together, with Darth Plagueis as their leader, manipulating the
actions of an important few to control the behavior of
countless trillions.
8: VICTIMS OF THEIR OWN DEVICE
In training Venamis, Tenebrous had obviously believed that
he was protecting the Grand Plan; Venamis, too, by
keeping an eye on a handful of Forceful candidates he, or
perhaps Tenebrous, had discovered. But now it fell to Plagueis to do something about those potential
competitors, if for no other reason than to eliminate the
possibility of another surprise attack. Venamis’s ship data banks contained information on six
beings, but subsequent investigation by 11-4D revealed
that one had died of natural causes, another was executed,
and a third was killed in a cantina brawl. Two of the
remaining three were unnamed, but Plagueis and 11-4D
had succeeded in learning as much about them as Venamis knew, after cracking the complex code the Bith
had used to safeguard the entries. How Venamis’s
candidates had escaped notice by the Jedi was something
of a mystery, but one scarcely worth solving. Plagueis
simply had to determine whether they posed a threat—to
him or to the Grand Plan. Muuns were seldom glimpsed quaffing Rywen’s Reserve
in exclusive tapcafs, sampling refined spice in membersonly clubs, or challenging the house in marathon sabacc
tournaments. HoloNet celebrity programs never showed
them with Twi’lek dancers on their slender arms, or
venturing into forests, seas or mountain ranges purely for
sport or adventure. But Plagueis was about to break with tradition, now that
the first of Venamis’s potential candidates had been traced
to a casino in Lianna City, in the heart of the remote Tion Cluster.
Jowls quivering, limpid eyes reflecting concern, and flanked
by Nikto security personnel, the pudgy Sullustan manager
of Colliders Casino hurried across the carpeted lobby
toward the concierge desk where Plagueis and 11-4D
were waiting. A pair of broad-purpose utility arms—one of which concealed a laser weapon—substituted for the
droid’s normal surgical appendages, and Plagueis was
attired in what most beings would assume was Banking
Clan garb, though differently cut and paler green in color.
“Welcome, sir, welcome,” the manager began in a
flustered voice. “Colliders is honored to have you as a
guest, though may I say that you are the first being from
Muunilinst to have used the casino’s public entrance. The
private entrance—” Plagueis raised a hand to cut him off. “I’m not here on
bank business.”
The Sullustan stared. “Then this isn’t an impromptu
audit?”
“I’m here regarding a private matter.”
The manager cleared his throat and stood up straighter.
“Then perhaps we could begin with your name.”
“I am Hego Damask.”
The Sullustan’s jowls began to quiver again. “Magister Damask? Of Damask Holdings?” Plagueis nodded.
“Forgive me for not recognizing you, sir. Were it not for
your munificence, Colliders would be in bankruptcy. More to
the point, Lianna City wouldn’t be the hub it is today, and
the pride of the Tion Cluster.” Plagueis smiled pleasantly. “Then if we might adjourn to
your office …”
“Of course, of course.” The Sullustan signaled the guards
to form a phalanx, then waved courteously for Plagueis and
11-4D to follow. “After you, sir. Please.” A turbolift carried them directly into a large office that
overlooked the casino’s main gaming room, which was
crowded with Mid and Outer Rim species patrons seated
at tables and individual machines, or huddled around ovide
and jubilee wheels and other gambling devices. The manager gestured Plagueis into an overstuffed chair and
settled himself at a reflective desk. OneOne-FourDee
stood quietly at Plagueis’s side.
“You said something about a private matter, Magister Damask?” Plagueis interlocked his hands. “It’s my understanding
that Colliders played host to a big winner a week ago.”
The Sullustan gave his head a mournful shake. “Bad
news travels fast, I see. But, yes, he nearly wiped us out. An
uncanny run of luck.”
“Are you certain it was luck?”
The Sullustan considered the question. “I think I
understand what you’re getting at, so allow me to explain. Species known to have telepathic abilities are barred from
gambling at Colliders, as is the case at most casinos. In
addition, we have always operated under the assumption
that ninety-nine percent of beings strong in the Force
belong to the Jedi Order, and that Jedi don’t gamble. As
regards the remaining one percent—those who may have
fallen between the cracks, as it were—well, most of them
are probably off somewhere doing good deeds or locked
away in monasteries contemplating the mysteries of the
universe.”
“And the remainder?”
The Sullustan planted his elbows on the desk and leaned
forward. “On those rare occasions—and I emphasize rare —when we have suspected beings might be using the
Force, we have demanded that they subject themselves to
a blood test.”
“Have you ever unmasked a Force-user?”
“Not in the twenty years I’ve been the administrator of this
facility. Of course, in this business you hear stories. For
example, there’s one about a casino on Denon that
employed a Forceful Iktotchi as a cooler—someone
capable of breaking a gambler’s winning streak. But I
suspect the story is apocryphal. Here at Colliders we rely
on the standard methods of making certain that the odds
are always in our favor. Regardless, from time to time,
someone proves an exception to the rule.” He paused for a moment. “But I’ll admit that I haven’t seen a winning streak
like this last one in years. It could take us months to
recuperate.”
“Did you demand a blood test?”
“As a matter of fact we did, Magister Damask. But our
resident analyst said that the winner’s blood didn’t
contain … well, whatever it would have contained if the
player was a Force-user. I confess to having a poor
understanding of the chemistry involved.”
“I myself wish I understood more,” Plagueis said. “Would
you happen to have an image of the winner?”
The manager frowned. “I don’t want to pry, but may I ask why this is of personal interest?” Plagueis sniffed. “It’s a tax matter.”
The Sullustan cheered up. “Then by all means.” His small
fingers flew across the desk input pad, and in seconds the
image of a Weequay appeared on a wall screen. Plagueis was both disappointed and mystified. Data
aboard Venamis’s ship had identified the potential
candidate as a Quarren. The being from Mon Calamari had
been using the Force to break the banks of casinos on a
dozen worlds, from Coruscant to Taris, from Nar Shaddaa
to Carratos. Apparently the Weequay who had won big at
Colliders had simply been lucky. Plagueis was about to say
as much to 11-4D when an intercom chimed and the manager inserted a transceiver into his large ear.
“Not again!” he said. “All right, send a security team to watch him.” Plagueis waited for an explanation.
“Another winning streak,” the Sullustan said. “A Kubaz
this time!” Plagueis stood up. “I wish to accompany the security
team to the floor. I won’t interfere. I’m simply curious about
your methods for detecting cheaters.”
“Of course,” the manager said, distracted. “Maybe you’ll
spot something we’ve missed.” Plagueis reached the turbolift simultaneously with the
arrival of two Bothans dressed in business suits and
remained with them as they weaved their way through the
ground-floor gaming area to one of the casino’s Collider
tables. Players drawn to the action were clustered threedeep around the table, making it impossible to catch so much as a glimpse of the lucky Kubaz until Plagueis and
the Bothans reached the croupier’s pit. Pressed in among
females of various species who were attempting without
success to get his attention, the dark-skinned, long-snouted male insectivore was seated across from the croupier,
behind several tall stacks of credit chits. The game was
called Collider because players placed bets on the types
and spiraling paths of high-energy subatomic particles
created as a result of collisions occurring within the
accelerator table and the random firings of deviating
electromagnets surrounding it. Due to the unpredictable
nature of the collisions, the house enjoyed only a small
advantage—where the accelerators weren’t rigged—but
the Kubaz was overcoming the odds by betting solely on
the particle paths rather than the particle categories. With the table accelerator humming to life and the Kubaz
sliding some of his chits across the gambling grid, Plagueis stretched out cautiously with the Force, sensing
intense concentration on the part of the Kubaz, and then an
extraordinary surge of psychic energy. The Kubaz was
using the Force—not to steer particles along certain paths
but to dazzle the electromagnets and significantly reduce
the number of paths the created particles were likely to
take.
The gathered crowd applauded and roared another win,
and the croupier pushed yet another stake of credit chits
across the table, adding to the millions of credits the Kubaz
had already won. In an effort to see deeper into the Kubaz, Plagueis opened himself to the Force again, and realized
at once that the Kubaz had perceived the intrusion. Rising
from the chair so suddenly that the females to either side of
him were nearly knocked over, he ordered the croupier to
cash him out. Without looking around him, he accepted the
redeemable winnings chit and hurried off in the direction of
the nearest bar. The Bothan security team fell in behind,
after promising to alert Plagueis if the Kubaz attempted to
leave the casino. Returned to the upper-tier office where 11-4D was still waiting by the chair and the Sullustan manager was
recovering from a flop sweat, Plagueis asked if Colliders maintained a database of players who had earned a
reputation by breaking the banks of casinos, not only on
Lianna but on other worlds where gambling was a popular
pastime. On the wall screen moments later ran images of male and female Ongree, Askajians, Zabrak, Togrutas, Kel
Dors, Gotals, and Niktos. Even a Clawdite shape-shifter.
“These are the most notorious of the lot,” the manager was explaining when the image of a Neimoidian came on
screen. “The ones the Gaming Authority suspects of having
developed surefire methods of cheating. Any who show up
at Colliders will be denied entrance.”
Plagueis studied the final images and turned to the Sullustan. “You have been most helpful. We won’t trouble
you any further.”
The turbolift had just lowered him and 11-4D to the
casino level when he asked the droid whether it had
noticed anything telling about the winners’ lineup.
“I find it curious that they are all, shall I say, Muunoid
bipeds of roughly the same physical construction, and
almost identical in height. One-point-eight meters, to be
precise.” OneOne-FourDee looked at Plagueis. “Is it
possible they are the same being?” Plagueis smiled in satisfaction. “Perhaps a Clawdite?”
“I was about to suggest as much. However, it is my
understanding that the Zolan reptomammalian shapeshifters are only rarely successful at perpetuating species
camouflage for more than a brief time without experiencing
intense discomfort. What’s more, the lineup featured a Clawdite.”
“What if it was a being taking the form of a Clawdite.” OneOne-FourDee gave a kind of start. “A Shi’ido, Magister. The candidate Venamis was monitoring is a
skinshifter!”
Little was known about the reclusive, telepathic species
from Laomon, save that they were capable of imitating a wide variety of sentient species. The most gifted were said
to be able to mimic trees or even rocks. A powerful female Shi’ido named Belia Darzu had been a Sith Lord in the pre- Bane era, creating armies of technobeasts she controlled
using dark side energy.
“That would explain the negative blood test results,” 11-
4D was saying. Plagueis nodded. “I suspect that this Forceful Shi’ido has
learned how to alter his blood. Or perhaps he merely
clouded the mind of the analyst, compelling him to ignore
the midi-chlorian count findings.”
They had just stepped down into the gaming area when
one of the Bothans hurried forward. “Magister Damask, I’ve
just received word that the Kubaz is leaving.”
“Did the Kubaz ask to have his winnings transferred to an
account?”
The Bothan shook his head. “He preferred a credit chit. Many winners do, hoping to protect their privacy.”
Plagueis thanked him and swung to the droid. “Hurry,
FourDee. Before he gets too much of a lead on us.”
They headed out into the glittering ecumenopolis, where
cloud-scrapers and monads towered above them,
pedestrian walkways were jammed with beings from up
and down the Perlemian Trade Route, and the sky was
crowded with traffic. And almost everywhere they looked,
they saw the name Santhe—above the doorways to
buildings, in advertisements that ran on giant wall screens,
emblazoned on the sides of airspeeders and ships. The
prominent family all but owned Lianna and had, for the past
thirty years, wrested a controlling interest in one of Lianna’s
principal enterprises: Sienar Technologies—
representatives from which had been guests at the recent
Gathering on Sojourn. Maintaining a reasonable distance, Plagueis and 11-4D
trailed the Kubaz from walkway to busy walkway, then
across one of the ornate bridges that spanned the Lona Cranith River into Lianna’s sister city, Lola Curich. Past the
headquarters of the Allied Tion Historical Society, Fronde’s Airspeeders, a cantina called Thorip Norr … All the while
the Kubaz had been glancing over his shoulder and was
now increasing his pace as he neared the entrance to a
pedestrian tunnel.
“The Shi’ido behaves as if he is aware of being
followed,” 11-4D said, photoreceptors fixed on their quarry.
“He’ll attempt to lose us in the tunnel. We’d do better to wait for him to exit.” Plagueis stopped to take a look
around. “This way, FourDee.” Hurrying through buildings undercut by the tunnel, they
emerged just where the pedestrian bypass debouched into
a public square fronted by restaurants and boutique shops. OneOne-FourDee sharpened his optical receptors and
trained them on the mouth of the tunnel. “Based on the rate
of speed at which the Shi’ido was walking when he entered
the tunnel, he should have exited by now.”
“And indeed he has,” Plagueis said. “Direct your
attention to the hefty Askajian who is passing by the Aurodium Spoon.”
The droid’s photoreceptors rotated slightly. “The Shi’ido
skinshifted inside the tunnel.”
“I suspected he might.”
“Would that I had a tool comparable to the Force, Magister.”
They resumed their clandestine surveillance, shadowing
the Askajian now, who led them on a convoluted tour of
Lola Curich that ended at an automated InterGalactic Banking Clan kiosk alongside a PetVac franchise. Plagueis relied on 11-4D to furnish an update on the
skinshifter’s activities.
“He has deposited the credit chit,” the droid said. “But I’m
unable to provide the account number. Even my macrovision pickups have their limitations.” Plagueis gestured in dismissal. “That won’t be a
problem.”
They waited until the Shi’ido had exited the kiosk to dart
inside. With the help of IBC codes Plagueis supplied, 11-
4D soon acquired not only the account number but also the
identity of the holder.
“Kerred Santhe the Second,” the droid said. Plagueis was speechless for a moment. Santhe had
inherited principal ownership of Santhe/Sienar
Technologies from the elder Kerred—who had the
distinction of being Plagueis’s first murder under the
tutelage of Darth Tenebrous. But that a wealthy industrialist
like Santhe should have need of a gambler’s winnings made little sense. Unless the Shi’ido was somehow in debt
to Santhe. Did the circuitous connection to Tenebrous
explain how the skinshifter had first come to Venamis’s
attention?
“How well versed are you in Shi’ido physiology?” Plagueis asked 11-4D.
“Shi’ido subjects participated in longevity studies
conducted on Obroa-skai. They possess a very flexible
physiology and anatomy, with reconfigurable tendons and
ligaments, and thin but dense skeletal features that allow
them to support their fleshy mass and extensive reserves of
bodily fluids.”
“Are your sensors capable of determining when a Shi’ido
is about to skinshift?”
“If the Shi’ido is in close proximity, yes.”
“Then we haven’t a moment to lose.” Catching up with their quarry as he was entering the
public square, they overtook him and hurried into the
pedestrian tunnel ahead of him. A hundred meters along,
they found themselves in an unoccupied, dimly lighted
stretch that Plagueis surmised the Shi’ido would make use
of to transform, and they waited.
The Shi’ido did not disappoint him. And the moment he
began to shift—from Askajian to what might have been
either an Ongree or a Gotal—11-4D activated the laser weapon hidden in its right arm and fired a tightbeam into
the base of the Shi’ido’s brain.
The momentarily monstrous medley of species loosed a
tormented scream and collapsed to the floor of the tunnel,
squirming in pain. Moving quickly, 11-4D dragged him
deeper into the dimness, where Plagueis positioned
himself behind the skinshifter’s grotesquely bulging
cranium, uneven shoulders, and hunched back.
“Why did you transfer your winnings to Kerred Santhe?” Plagueis asked.
The Shi’ido’s twisted mouth struggled to form a
response. “Are you with the Gaming Authority?”
“You only wish. Again: Why Kerred Santhe?”
“Gambling debts,” the Shi’ido slurred, as slaver dripped
to the ground. “He’s in debt to a couple of Black Sun Vigos
and other lenders.”
“Santhe is one of the galaxy’s wealthiest beings,” Plagueis pressed. “Why would he need what you’ve been
stealing from casinos from here to Coruscant?”
“He’s millions in debt. He hasn’t stopped drinking and
gambling since his father was assassinated.” Brilliantly assassinated, Plagueis thought. “Even so, Black Sun would never target him.”
The Forceful Shi’ido craned his lumpy neck in an effort to
get a look at his inquisitor. “He knows that. But the Vigos
are threatening to go public with the information. A scandal
could persuade Santhe/Sienar’s board of directors to oust
him as chief operating officer and appoint Narro Sienar as
his replacement.” Plagueis laughed shortly in a surprised but satisfied way.
“As well they should, skinshifter.” He stood and began to move off. “You’ve been most helpful. You’re free to go.”
“You can’t leave me like this,” the Shi’ido begged. Plagueis came to a halt and returned to his victim. “If you were funding terrorism or purchasing weapons, I might
have allowed you to continue fleecing the casinos. But by
fattening Black Sun’s coffers and protecting the reputation
of an enemy of one of my friends, you become my enemy,
as well.” He lowered his voice to a menacing growl.
“Consider this: you have one last chance to use your Force
talents to win big before your horrid image becomes the
centerpiece of the cheaters database on every gambling world. I suggest you use your winnings wisely to make a
new life for yourself where the Gaming Authority won’t be
able to find you, and Iwon’t come looking for you.”
To say that the planet Saleucami was the bright spot of its
system meant merely that it alone, among half a dozen
airless and desolate worlds, was capable of supporting life.
Its own bright spots were not, as one might suspect, those
areas that hadn’t yet been victimized by meteor
bombardments, but rather some of the impact craters the
ceaseless celestial storm had left behind. For there the meteor strikes had conjured mineral-rich underground waters to the arid surface, turning the craters into caldera
lakes, and the environs into oases of orbiculate flora. Blue-skinned, yellow-eyed bipeds from the far side of the Core had been the first to colonize Saleucami, which meant
“oasis” in their tongue, for the world was just that among
those they had visited during the long journey from Wroona. Since then had come hearty groups of Weequay, Gran, and
Twi’leks, in flight from conflicts or in search of hardscrabble
isolation, and up to the tasks of farming the colorless
ground for moisture and subsisting on tasteless root crops
that withered in the midday heat and froze solid at night. Eventually the planet had given rise to a city and a
spaceport, constructed in the shadow of one of the
calderas nourished by geothermal energy. Saleucami’s more recent immigrants were of a different
sort: young beings from worlds as distant as Glee Anselm
and Arkania, dressed in tattered clothing and carrying their
possessions on their backs. Drifters and searchers arriving
in the battered transports and tramp freighters that served
the Outer Rim systems. Male and female, though three
times the latter to the former, distinguished by what some
saw as a restless gaze and others the look of the lost. At
first the native colonists didn’t know what to make of these
feckless wanderers, but gradually an entire industry had
grown up to cater to their simple if peculiar needs for
shelter, food, and surface transport into the wastelands, where enlightenment awaited, delivered at the outsized
hands of a being who was rumored to possess prophetic
powers. Among them that day was a Muun wearing a simple
hooded robe and well-worn boots. Where normally the mere sight of a Muun might have generated rumors that
Saleucami was about to be acquired by the InterGalactic Banking Clan, the youthful horde the Munn had fallen in with
barely gave him a second glance. Not when the crowd
already included Ryn and Fosh and other exotic species;
and not when Saleucami itself was viewed as little more
than a stepping-stone to a greater world. Plagueis had left 11-4D on Sy Myrth and completed the
journey by freighter in the hope of maintaining as low a
profile as possible. Background data on the prophet was
scant, though Venamis had noted that she had been born in
the Inner Rim and had arrived on Saleucami only three
years earlier. Saleucami’s colonists were willing to tolerate
her presence, as well as the camp followers she attracted,
provided they confined their assemblies to the wastelands. Wedged in among forty others in an overpacked
speeder bus, Plagueis let his gaze sweep across a forlorn
landscape of volcanic mountains and the sheer walls of
impact craters. In a cloudless sky of pale purple, blinding
light flashed intermittently, and the monotony of the five-hour
trip was relieved only by the occasional settlement or lone moisture farm. Journey’s end was a relatively small caldera
lake, from the shores of which rose a communal sprawl of
tents and crude shelters, populated by the dreamy veterans
of previous assemblies.
The Selected, as they were called. Climbing from the speeder bus, Plagueis joined the
crowd of newcomers in a short trek to a natural
amphitheater, where pieces of meteorite provided seats for
some. Others sat on their backpacks or spread out on the
uneven ground. Shortly, the sound of whining engines
announced the arrival of a caravan of hybridized
landspeeders, many in pristine condition, though covered
with dust and bleached of color by the harsh light. Nearly
everyone in the amphitheater stood up and a wave of
anticipation moved through the crowd, building to a fervor
as an Iktotchi female stepped from one of the vehicles,
encircled by disciples dressed as plainly as she was. Plagueis couldn’t think of a being more suited to Saleucami or cult status: a hairless biped with downwardcurving horns and a prominent brow, skin hardened to withstand the violent winds of her homeworld, and a
contentious countenance that belied an emotional nature. But, most important, possessed of proven precognitive
ability. Alone, she mounted a slab of stone that was the
amphitheater’s stage and, once the crowd had quieted,
began to speak in a solemn voice.
“I have seen the coming darkness and the beings that will
visit it upon the galaxy.” She paused briefly to allow her words to be felt. “I have witnessed the collapse of the Republic, and I have beheld the Jedi Order spun into
turmoil.” She aimed a finger toward distant mountains. “On
the horizon looms a galaxy-spanning war—a conflict
between machines of alloy and machines of flesh, and the
subsequent death of tens of millions of innocents.” She paced on the slab, almost as if speaking to herself.
“I see worlds subjugated and worlds destroyed, and from
the chaos a new order born, buttressed by ferocious weapons the likes of which haven’t been seen in more than
one thousand years. A galaxy brought under the yoke of a
ruthless despot who serves the forces of entropy. And
finally I have seen that only those hardened by this
ineluctable truth can survive.” She scanned the audience.
“Only those of you who are willing to turn upon one another
and profit by the misfortunes of others.”
The crowd sat in stunned silence. Iktotchi were said to
surrender some of their precognitive abilities the farther
they traveled from their homeworld, but that wasn’t always
the case. And certainly not, Plagueis told himself, in the
case of an Iktotchi who was strong in the Force. It was no wonder that Venamis had been keeping tabs on her.
“I have been sent to overturn your most cherished beliefs
in a bright future, and to help you wage war on good
intentions and the deception of pure ideas; to teach you
how to accept the fact that even in the midst of this
seemingly blessed era, this wink of the eye in sentient
history, our baser instincts hold sway over us. I have been
sent to counsel you that the Force itself will become as if it
had been but a passing fancy among the self-deceived—
an antiquated illusion that will turn to smoke on the
cleansing fires of the new age.” She paused once more, and when she next spoke some
of the edge had left her voice.
“What this reordered galaxy will need is beings who are
fearless to be arrogant, self-serving, and driven to survive
at all costs. Here, under my guidance, you will learn to let go
of your old selves and find the strength to recast yourselves
as beings of durasteel, through actions you might never
have believed yourselves possible of performing.
“I am the pilot of your future.” She opened her arms to the crowd. “Look, each of you,
to the ones to your left and right, and to those in front and
behind …” Plagueis did as instructed, meeting innocent gazes and
angry ones, frightened looks and expressions of loss.
“… and think of them as stepping-stones to your eventual
escalation,” the Iktotchi said. She showed her hands. “The
touch from my hands will set the current flowing through you;
it will trip the switch that will start your journey to
transformation. Come to me if you wish to be selected.” Many in the crowd stood and began to press toward the
stage, pushing others out of the way, fighting to be first to
reach her. Plagueis took his time, finding a place at the end
of a meandering line. While the notion of having a ready- made army of dark siders available to him was not without
a certain appeal, the Iktotchi was spreading a message
that had doomed the Sith of old, the Sith who preceded
Bane’s reformation, and had allowed internecine fighting to
propel the Order into oblivion. The appropriate message
should have been that they relinquish their need to feel in
control of their own destinies and accept the enlightened
leadership of a select few. Saleucami’s primary was low in the sky by the time Plagueis reached the stone slab and stood facing the
Iktotchi. Her broad hands took hold of his, and she
tightened her thick fingers around his narrow palms.
“A Muun of wealth and taste—the first who has come in
search of me,” she said.
“You were selected,” Plagueis told her. She held his gaze, and a sudden look of uncertainty
came into her eyes, as if Plagueis had locked horns with
her. “What?”
“You were selected—though without your knowledge. And so I needed to meet you in person.” She continued to stare at him. “That’s not why you are
here.”
“Oh, but it is,” Plagueis said. She tried to withdraw her hands, but Plagueis now had
firm hold of them. “That’s not why you are here,” she said,
altering the emphasis. “You wear the darkness of the future.
It is I who have sought you; I who should be your
handmaiden.”
“Unfortunately not,” Plagueis whispered. “Your message
is premature and dangerous to my cause.”
“Then let me undo it! Let me do your bidding.”
“You are about to.” A fire ignited in her eyes and her body went rigid as Plagueis began to trickle lightning into her. Her limbs
trembled and her blood began to boil. Her hands grew hot
and were close to being set aflame when he finally felt the
light go out of her and she crumpled in his grasp. Askance,
he saw one of the Iktotchi’s Twi’lek disciples racing toward
him, and he abruptly let go of her hands and stepped away
from her spasming body.
“What happened?” the Twi’lek demanded as other
disciples were rushing to the Iktotchi’s aid. “What did you
do to her?” Plagueis made a calming gesture. “I did nothing,” he said
in a deep monotone. “She fainted.”
The Twi’lek blinked and turned to his comrades. “He did
nothing. She fainted.”
“She’s not breathing!” one of them said.
“Help her,” Plagueis said in the same monotone.
“Help her,” the Twi’lek said. “Help her!” Plagueis stepped from the slab and began to walk
against a sudden tide of frenzied beings toward one of the waiting speeder buses. Night was falling quickly. Behind
him, shouts of disbelief rang out, echoing in the
amphitheater. Panic was building. Beings were wringing
their hands, jiggling their antennae and other appendages, walking in circles, mumbling to themselves. He was the only one to board the speeder bus. Those he
had arrived with and the Selected who had built shelters
above the lakes were running into the dark, as if
determined to lose themselves in the wastes.
In a starship similar in design to the one that had delivered
Tenebrous and Plagueis to Bal’demnic—a Rugess Nome
craft—Plagueis and 11-4D traveled to the Mid Rim world of
Bedlam, near the argent pulsar of the same name. A leak
point in realspace and a playground for purported
transdimensional beings, the luminous cosmic
phenomenon struck Plagueis as the perfect setting for the
sanatorium to which the last of Venamis’s potential
apprentices—a Nautolan—had been confined for the past
five years. Uniformed Gamorrean guards met them at the towering
front doors of the Bedlam Institution for the Criminally
Demented and showed them to the office of the
superintendent, where they were welcomed by an Ithorian, who listened closely but in obvious dismay to the purpose
of Plagueis’s surprise visit.
“Naat Lare has been named as a beneficiary in a will?” Plagueis nodded. “A small inheritance. As chief executor
I have been searching for him for some time.”
The Ithorian’s twin-lobed head swung back and forth and
his long, bulbous-tipped fingers tapped a tattoo on the
desktop. “I’m sorry for having to report that he is no longer with us.”
“Dead?”
“Quite possibly. But what I meant to say is that he has
disappeared.”
“When?”
“Two months ago.”
“Why was he originally confined to Bedlam?” Plagueis
asked.
“He was remanded by authorities on Glee Anselm, but
ultimately sentenced to serve out his time here, where he
could be looked after.”
“What was his crime?”
“Crimes, is more apt. He has a long history of
sadomasochistic practices—most often performed on
small animals—pyromania, petty crime, and intoxicant use.
Typically we see this in beings who have been abused or
had an unstable upbringing, but Naat Lare had a loving
family and is very intelligent, despite having been expelled
from countless schools.” Plagueis considered his next question carefully. “Is he
dangerous?”
The Ithorian drummed his spatulate fingers again before
responding. “At the risk of violating patient confidentiality, I would say potentially dangerous, as he has certain … let
us say, talents, that transcend the ordinary.”
“Did those talents figure into his escape?”
“Perhaps. Though we think he may have had help.”
“From whom?”
“A Bith physician who took an interest in his case.”
Plagueis leaned back in his chair. Venamis? “Have you
contacted this physician?”
“We tried, but the information he furnished regarding his
practice and place of residence was fraudulent.”
“So he may not have been a physician.”
The Ithorian’s head bobbed on his curving neck. “Sadly.
The Bith may have been an accomplice, of sorts.”
“Do you have any idea where Naat Lare may have
disappeared to?”
“Assuming he left Bedlam on his own, the possibilities
are limited, given the dearth of starships that serve us. His
first stop would have to have been either Felucia, Caluula,
or Abraxin. We notified the authorities on those worlds. Unfortunately, we lack the budget to undertake an extensive
search.” Plagueis cast 11-4D a meaningful glance and rose from
the chair. “Your cooperation is greatly appreciated, Superintendent.”
“We’re confident that the Jedi will locate him, in any
case,” the Ithorian added as Plagueis and the droid were
about to exit the office. Plagueis swung back around. “The Jedi?”
“Because of Naat Lare’s peculiar gifts, we felt obliged to
contact the Order as soon as he was discovered to be
missing. They graciously consented to assist us in the
search.” The Ithorian paused. “I could contact you if I learn
something …” Plagueis smiled. “I’ll leave my contact information with
your assistant.” He and 11-4D returned to the ship in silence. While the
boarding ramp was lowering, Plagueis said, “Beings like Naat Lare don’t remain hidden for long. Search the HoloNet
and other sources for news of recent events on the three worlds the superintendent named, and apprise me of any
accounts that capture your interest.”
The ship had scarcely left Bedlam’s atmosphere when
11-4D reported to the cockpit.
“A morsel from Abraxin, Magister,” the droid began.
“Buried among stories of intriguing or bizarre occurrences. Reports of the recent killings of dozens of marsh haunts in
the swamps surrounding a Barabel settlement on the
southern continent.”
Large, nonsentient bipedal creatures, marsh haunts
hunted in packs and were known to use the Force to flush
their prey into the open.
“The superstitious among the Barabels believe that the Blight of Barabel is responsible for the rash of killings.” Plagueis slapped the palms of his hands on his thighs.
“Our Nautolan has moved on from torturing household pets
to murdering Forceful creatures. And I’m certain that the
Jedi will reach the same conclusion.”
“If they haven’t already, sir.” Plagueis caressed his chin in thought. “This one has more than a hint of the dark side. It’s no wonder Venamis was visiting him. Have the navicomputer plot a course for Abraxin, FourDee. We’re returning to the Tion Cluster.” A standard day later they had made planetfall close to
the area where the marsh haunt killings had been occurring. By design, the Barabel settlement was remote from any of
the planet’s spaceports, at the dubious edge of an
extensive swamp, the twisting shorelines of which were
palisaded by dense stands of water-rooted trees. On a
finger of high ground a few pre-form buildings rose among
clusters of stilted, thatched-roof homes linked to one
another by paths that weaved through the dry-season
grasses. The scaled, reptilian natives wore just enough
clothing to be modest, and a sickly sweet smell of rotting
vegetation hung in the motionless air. Abraxin had been
strong in the dark side during Bane’s lifetime, when it had
been aligned with Lord Kaan’s Brotherhood of Darkness,
but Plagueis could sense that the power had waned
significantly in the intervening centuries. He and 11-4D hadn’t walked a kilometer from the ship when they came upon a group of Barabels hauling a quartet
of slaughtered marsh haunts from the legume-soup-colored water. The foul-smelling, bipedal carcasses had been
slashed and stabbed, and had lost their red eyes to the
delicate work of a vibroblade. On first glance one might
have thought that the creatures had been decapitated, as well, what with their small heads set low between hunched
shoulders. Plagueis found the Barabels to be no more
pleasant smelling than the butchered haunts, but they knew
enough Basic to answer his questions about the recent
spate of killings.
“Memberz of the same hunt pack, these four,” one of the
reptilians explained, “and done in only last night.” Another, whose shedded tail was just beginning to
regrow, added: “It’z the Blight.” His clawed paw indicated
the black eye sockets of one of the limp haunts. “This one
believes that only the Blight would take the eyes.” Continuing on the shaded path that led into the
settlement, Plagueis shrugged out of his cloak and folded it
over his right forearm. A turn in the path revealed that he wasn’t the only visitor improperly dressed for the climate. Up ahead two Jedi layered in the Order’s traditional brown
robes were haggling with a Barabel over the rental price for
a water skimmer. Plagueis anchored himself in the material
realm as the younger of the two Jedi—a Zabrak—swung
slowly around to watch him and 11-4D as they passed. Responding to the Jedi’s look with a nod of his head, Plagueis kept walking, deviating from the path only when
they had reached a small market building, from which the
pair of Jedi and the Barabel skimmer pilot could still be
observed. Familiar with Barabel, Plagueis eavesdropped
on conversations among the merchants, who sat behind
trays of dead fish, birds, and insects the swamp had
provided. The marsh haunt killings were on everyone’s mind, as were superstitions about the Blight. But the arrival
of the Jedi was viewed as a good omen, in that the Order was venerated for having helped settle a clan dispute on Barab I almost a millennium earlier. Plagueis drew 11-4D to the market entrance and
instructed him to sharpen his photoreceptors on the Jedi, who were in the midst of concluding their business with the
skimmer pilot. He then allowed himself to call deeply on the
Force.
“Both of them reacted,” the droid said. “The Cerean
directed a gaze at the market, but didn’t focus on you.”
“Only because he has his feelers out for a Nautolan
rather than a Muun.” A short time later, while Plagueis and 11-4D were wandering through the settlement, someone called out in Core-accented Basic: “We appear to be the only strangers
in town.”
The voice belonged to the rangy Cerean, who had
emerged from an eatery bearing a flagon of liquid.
Following him outside, the Zabrak set two mugs on a table
that enjoyed a pool of shade.
“Join us, please,” the Cerean said, nodding his tall
conical head toward the table’s spare chair. Plagueis stepped toward the table but declined the chair.
“A locally produced beer,” the Zabrak said, pouring from
the flagon. “But I saw a bottle of Abraxin Brandy inside, if
that’s more to your liking.”
“Thank you, but neither at the moment,” Plagueis said.
“Perhaps after working hours.”
The Cerean motioned to himself. “I am Master Ni-Cada. And this is Padawan Lo Bukk. What brings you to Abraxin,
citizen—”
“Micro-loans,” Plagueis cut in before having to provide a
name. “The Banking Clan is considering opening a branch
of the Bank of Aargau here as a means of shoring up the
local economy.”
The Jedi traded enigmatic looks over the rims of the mugs.
“And what brings the Jedi to Abraxin, Master Ni-Cada?
Not the shellfish, I take it.”
“We’re investigating the recent killings of marsh haunts,”
the Zabrak said, perhaps before his Master could prevent
him.
“Ah, of course. My droid and I saw the bodies of four of
the pitiful creatures when we entered the settlement.”
The Cerean nodded gravely. “This so-called Blight will be
over by tomorrow.” Plagueis adopted a look of pleasant surprise. “Wonderful
news. There’s nothing worse than superstition to cripple an
economy. Enjoy your drinks, citizens.” OneOne-FourDee waited until he and Plagueis were well
out of earshot of the Jedi to say: “Are we departing Abraxin, Magister?” Plagueis shook his head. “Not before I find the Nautolan.
I’ve no choice but to attempt to draw him out of hiding.”
“But should you call on the Force, you’re likely to attract
the Jedi, as well.”
“The risk may prove worthwhile.”
They spent the afternoon eavesdropping on
conversations about the locations of the killings, and
determined that Naat Lare, whether he realized it or not,
had been following a pattern. In the darkness at the edge of
the settlement, at a spot along the bloodsucker-plagued
shore of the dark swamp, some six kilometers from the market, Plagueis peeled out of his leggings, tunic, and
bonnet, and slipped naked into the murky water. With an
aquata breather clamped between his teeth, he propelled
himself to the bottom. There, squatting in the muck, he
opened himself fully to the Force and summoned the Nautolan, whose Force and olfactory senses might suggest
that the mother of all marsh haunts was at hand for killing. A
tattooed female Nautolan named Dossa had once been
deemed suitable to serve Sith Lord Exar Kun; who knew
what gifts Naat Lare might possess?
Surfacing to the riotous stridulations of insects, Plagueis
leapt to the muddy shore, dressed, and perched himself in
starlight on the slippery roots of a leafy tree. Shortly, he
sensed an echo in the Force and saw ripples in the water
some distance away. In the dim light, a blue-green nest of
head-tresses broke the surface, followed by a pair of
lidless maroon eyes. Then the amphibious sentient from
Glee Anselm appeared, pulling himself ashore like some
devolved beast and fixing his attention on Plagueis. At the same time, Plagueis heard the sound of a water
skimmer approaching rapidly from deeper in the swamp,
and sensed the presence of the two Jedi.
“You’re not Venamis,” Naat Lare said in Basic, one hand
on the hilt of a vibroblade strapped to his muscular thigh.
“He helped you escape Bedlam and sent you here as
part of your training.” Naat Lare’s hand closed on the hilt. “Who are you?” Plagueis stood to his full height. “I am Venamis’s Master.”
The Nautolan looked confused, but only momentarily.
Then he genuflected in the mud. “Lord,” he said, lowering
his head.
The sound of the skimmer was closer now, just around a
bend in the swamp. “Two Jedi have tracked you.” Naat Lare’s tresseled head swung to the sound of the
skimmer. Plagueis began to retreat into the shadows, and into mundane nature. “Prove yourself worthy to me and
Venamis by killing them.”
“Yes, my lord.” The Nautolan sprang to his feet and dived
into the slime-covered water. Deep in the leafy trees Plagueis waited. The skimmer’s motor went silent; then water surged and shouts of alarm
and sudden flashes of light erupted in the night.
“Master!” A harsh guttural sound rang out, followed by a scream of
pain.
“Stand aside, Padawan.”
“Master, it’s—” Another scream, higher in pitch.
“Don’t! Don’t!”
The thrum of an angered lightsaber, a howl of pain, and
something heavy struck the water.
“Is he alive? Is he alive?” Someone moaned.
“Wait …” Waves broke on the rooted shore close to where Plagueis had concealed himself.
“Master?”
“It’s done. He’s dead.”
9: UNTAPPED RESERVES
For more than fifty years Damask Holdings had occupied
one of Harnaidan’s most magnificent superspires. If not as
soaring or massive as those belonging to the InterGalactic Banking Clan and its numerous subsidiaries, the building
had the advantage of being constructed close to the largest
of the city’s naturally heated lakes, which had been
incorporated into the property as an exclusive spa. The
company’s boardroom overlooked the lake and
surrounding hot springs from an architectural setback on
the two-hundredth floor, where Hego Damask, Larsh Hill,
and the chief officers and executives of Damask Holdings
convened for twice-weekly meetings. That day a onequarter-life-sized holopresence stood at the center of the
room’s enormous circular holotable, addressing the
gathered Muuns in Basic from the far-removed world of
Naboo. A human of medium height, the speaker had dark brown
hair combed straight back from a sloping forehead, a thick
and lengthy beard and mustache, and bright blue eyes set
in a symmetrical if unremarkable face. He was attired in
layers of richly colored clothing, which included a vest
embroidered with Futhork calligraphy and a brocade
overcloak that fell to his knees, revealing tall, shiny, lowheeled leather boots. His name was Ars Veruna, and
although he didn’t hold a position in Naboo’s monarchical
government, he was speaking for the current pretender to
the throne, Bon Tapalo, and was likely to be appointed
governor of the city of Theed in the event of Tapalo’s
election.
“Our campaign has been stalled by recent allegations
from the leaders of some of the royal houses,” Veruna was
telling the gathered Muuns. “Something has to be done to
recapture momentum—and quickly. Counterallegations made public by an unknown benefactor went a long way
toward undoing the initial damage of the nobles’ media
releases, but a new wariness has gripped the electorate,
strengthening the position of our provincial opponents.”
“Audio cancellation,” one of the Muuns said toward the
holosystem’s pickups. Secure in the knowledge that
conversation around the table had been muted, he went on.
“Are all the Naboo as hirsute and elaborately costumed as
this Veruna?”
Larsh Hill replied. “They are traditionalists—tonsorially as well as politically. The style of dress and facial adornments
pay homage to the regalia of Queen Elsinore den Tasia of
Grizmallt, who dispatched an expeditionary fleet of humans
to the planet some four thousand years ago, and to whom
some Naboo claim to be able to trace an unbroken
ancestry.”
“They are not, after all, as furry as Wookiees,” said
another. Hill grunted affirmatively. “In addition to humans, Naboo
supports a hairless amphibious species known as the Gungans. Perhaps indigenous, perhaps not, but in no
position to represent the planet in galactic dealings, in
either case.” Seated with his back to the scenic view beyond the window wall, Plagueis studied the holoimage of Veruna. Generally he loathed politicians for their pretentions and illinformed belief that wealth and influence conferred true
power. But politicians were a necessary evil, and, if nothing
else, Veruna burned with greed and ambition, which meant
that he could be manipulated if necessary.
The missions to Lianna, Saleucami, and Abraxin were
still fresh in his thoughts. On a philosophical level he
understood why the generations of Sith Lords that had
preceded him had trained apprentices, to whom they had
bequeathed their knowledge of the dark side of the Force
in anticipation of an eventual challenge for superiority. But with the Grand Plan culminating, it made no sense to
challenge or kill beings of equal power unless they posed a
threat to Plagueis’s personal destiny. The Sith line would
continue through him or not at all. Thus the need for a
partner rather than an underling; a cohort to help put into
play the final stages of the imperative. It had long been his
belief that the dark side would provide that one when the
time was right.
Plagueis hadn’t anticipated having to turn his attention
quite so suddenly to Naboo, but with the Trade Federation
still grumbling about his support for the Outer Rim freetrade zones, and the Gran worried about losing Podrace
revenues to Gardulla the Hutt, there were ample reasons for
getting down to business. More important, Plagueis had
long sought a planet that Damask Holdings and the
steerage committee members could use as a base of
operations. The possibility of having a future King at their
beck and call was an added bonus, and even such unlikely
players as Boss Cabra stood to profit from the Muuns’
securing of Naboo.
It was during his absence from Muunilinst that Larsh Hill
and some of the others had made overtures to the group
vying for the throne of Naboo. In exchange for financial and
logistical support in the upcoming election, Damask
Holdings had asked for exclusive rights to transport plasma
from the as-yet-untapped reservoir the Subtext Mining
Group had recently discovered deep beneath the plateau
that supported the capital city of Theed. Not every Naboo,
however, was in favor of involving the planet in trade of the
sort that would result from making plasma energy available,
and a cadre of nobles had thrown their support behind
Tapalo’s chief rival for the monarchy. Reactivating the audio feed, Plagueis asked: “What was
the nature of the allegations made by the royal houses?”
“First, they leaked word of the mining survey we had
performed,” Veruna said, “but the revelation failed to have
the intended effect, because several members of the
electorate favor opening Naboo to galactic trade. Then, when they learned of our initial talks with Damask Holdings,
the nobles accused us of selling Naboo to the highest
bidder—to, and I’ll quote—‘a shady, extra-system cartel of
ruthless criminals.’ ” The human paused for a moment. “You
should understand, Magister, that our world has yet to
overcome a long history of forbidding outside influence.
The royal houses realize that trade is a sensitive issue and
are now advocating for Naboo to oversee the transport of
plasma to other worlds. But frankly we lack both the funds
and the expertise to make that a reality.”
“How were the nobles able to learn of our overtures to
you?” Plagueis asked.
“We haven’t been able to determine the source,” Veruna
said. Plagueis muted the audio feed and turned to Hill. “We
need to consider that someone close to our organization may be responsible for this ‘leak.’ ” Hill and some of the others nodded in agreement.
“The royal houses need to be informed that a leap into
the business of transgalactic shipping is ill advised,” Plagueis said when he had reactivated the audio feed.
“Naboo will need funding, logistical support, and perhaps
even Republic legislation, and it is precisely in those areas where Damask Holdings can serve as an intermediary. Actual funding would come from the InterGalactic Banking
Clan, and other conglomerates would be involved in
assisting Naboo in tapping the plasma and in the
construction of a spaceport of sufficient size to handle the
ships needed to transport it.” Veruna stroked his tapered beard. “Bon Tapalo will
certainly want to address these points with the electorate.” Plagueis liked what he was hearing. “You mentioned
certain counterallegations released by an unknown party.”
“Yes, and I confess that we were as surprised by the
information as anyone. It seems that our group is not the
first to seek the advice and support of offworld interests. Roughly sixty standard years ago, at the height of a war
between the Naboo and the Gungans, our monarch was
killed, and it has now emerged that some members of the
very same royal houses that oppose Tapalo struck a secret
deal with a mercenary group to intervene in the war should
the Naboo suffer further setbacks. Fortunately, the conflict was resolved without the need for outside help. In fact, as a
result of that conflict, the monarchy has since been an
elected rather than hereditary post.”
“You say that the information came as a surprise,” Plagueis continued. Veruna nodded. “The information had to have been
provided by a source within the opposition.”
It now fell to Larsh Hill to mute the feed.
“Veruna is correct. We were able to trace the release of
the information to the young son of one of the nobles. In the
hope of avoiding a scandal that could divide the electorate,
the head of the royal house has perpetuated a lie that the
Tapalo group chanced on the information and made it
public, when actually only someone with access to the
family archives could have discovered it.” His interest piqued, Plagueis said, “What is the name of
the royal family?”
“Palpatine.”
“And the son?”
“Just that. He goes by the cognomen alone.” Plagueis leaned back in the chair to consider this, then
said, “We may have found a potential ally—someone willing
to keep us informed of the royals’ plans for the election.”
“An agent,” Hill said. “An inside man, as it were.” Plagueis canceled the mute function. “We wish to visit
Naboo in order to discuss these matters face-to-face.” Veruna was clearly surprised. “A public appearance by
you would allow us to refute any allegations of secret
collusion.”
“Then all of us have something to gain.” Veruna bowed at the waist. “It will be our great honor to welcome you, Magister Damask.”
Later it would be said by Naboo and Gungan alike that they
couldn’t recall a colder winter than the one that followed
Hego Damask’s autumnal visit to their world. The rivers and
even the falls below Theed froze; the rolling plains and tall
forests were blanketed three meters deep with snow;
plasmic quakes rocked the Gallo Mountains and the Lake Country, the Holy Places and the undersea city of Otoh
Gunga; and many of the egresses of the underwaterways
that hollowed the planet were blocked by ice floes.
Tapalo and Veruna had insisted on sending one of
Naboo’s signature starships to transport the Muuns from
Muunilinst, and the sleek Nubian had set down at Theed
spaceport, a small facility that would have to be enlarged
twentyfold if Naboo hoped to one day become a player in
galactic commerce. The city itself struck Plagueis as the
very antithesis of Harnaidan; where the capital of Muunilinst was vertical, angular, and austere, Theed was low, convex,
and condensed, dominated by rotundas crowned with
verdigris domes or flat roofs and tiered towers supported
by round-topped archways. A river and several tributaries
ran through the place, spanned by filigreed bridges and
plunging in a series of high falls from an escarpment to
verdant flatlands below. A cortège of air skimmers carried the black-robed
Muuns through streets better suited to pedestrian traffic to
the interior courtyard of an ancient palace, where pretender
to the throne Bon Tapalo, Veruna, and several other human
advisers and would-be ministers of both sexes were on
hand to welcome them. Draped in shimmersilk robes and
propped by boots with high heels, the bearded and blondhaired Tapalo already carried himself like a regent—albeit
of a second-rate world—remaining seated while Hego Damask and the rest of the Muuns were introduced, and
flanked by guards dressed in flare-skirted uniforms and
armed with vintage blasters. Veruna, on the other hand,
immediately fell into step alongside Damask as the Muuns were being escorted into the central building of the
complex.
“As I said when we spoke weeks back, Magister Damask, we are honored by your visit.”
“And as I told you then, we all have something to gain.” Damask turned slightly to look down at him. “Especially
you, I suspect.” Veruna gestured to himself in question. “I—”
“Not now,” Damask said softly. “When the time is right,
you and Iwill confer privately.” Under a broad arch and through a lobby of polished
stone they moved as a group, ultimately arriving at a
second small courtyard where several tables had been set
up, some overflowing with food and drink, and the largest
reserved for the Muuns. No sooner were they seated than
servants appeared and began serving food, including
various meats that the Muuns politely declined. The
practice of consuming food while conducting business was
one that Damask had grown to tolerate in his dealings with
humans, but in secret he detested it.
For many years he had detested the company of
humans, as well. Barbaric meat eaters that they were,
humans were a highly evolved species. Given their native
intelligence and shrewd faculties, they deserved to be
treated with the same deference Muuns were afforded. And
yet many of the galaxy’s sapient species considered
themselves to be equal to humans, who had only
themselves to blame. Unlike Muuns, humans had no
compunctions about lowering themselves to the level of
less advanced beings—the slow-witted, disadvantaged,
needy, and pitiful—making a pretense of equality and
demonstrating a willingness to work and sweat cheek-bydewlaps alongside them. Instead of celebrating their
superiority, they frequently allowed themselves to be
dragged down into mediocrity. A Muun would no sooner
accept a position as a starship pilot or a smuggler than he would a career diplomat or politician unless required to do
so for the greater good of Muuns everywhere. Humans,
though, could be found in every occupation. But what made
them especially intriguing was their seeming intent to
spread themselves to the far reaches of the galaxy, without
any sense of control or planning, at whatever cost, and
using up world after world in their insatiable quest, as if
their diaspora from the Core reflected some sort of species
imperative. More important, the Force seemed not only to
allow their unchecked dissemination but to support it. In
human hands, Damask suspected, rested the profane
future of the galaxy. Naboo blossom wine was still being poured when the Muuns made their pitch to the Tapalo group, employing the
courtyard’s holoprojector to provide a virtual portrait of what
Theed and other nearby cities might look like ten years on.
Funding by the IBC would be allocated to tapping the
plasma reservoir beneath the plateau. At the same time, Outer Rim Construction and Assembly—one of Cabra’s
companies—would build an enormous refinery on the site
of what was currently parkland, overlooking the Verdugo Plunge, housing the technology inside a triple-domed
structure of Neo-Classical design. The Muuns detailed how
the cliff walls could be stabilized and the tributaries of the Solleu River rerouted without disturbing the existing
architecture or Theed’s network of underground tunnels. Below the cliffs, the Trade Federation would enlarge
Theed’s spaceport, constructing a massive landing
platform that would follow the natural curve of the
escarpment, and open a second commercial port at
Spinnaker. By the time the pitch concluded, Tapalo looked stricken.
“Clearly you’ve put a good deal of thought into this,” he
said to Larsh Hill, “but is there no room in your plans for Naboo firms?”
“The last thing we want is to have these construction
projects be seen as signs of foreign occupation,” Hill said.
“Our partners wish to work closely with Naboo’s own Plasma Energy Engineering and the Theed Space Vessel
Engineering Corporation to make certain that the
improvements are viewed as a cooperative effort. When
the construction phases are completed, the refinery and the
spaceports will be under your full control.” Some of the color returned to Tapalo’s face. “The
opposition contends that Naboo will be forever indebted to
the Banking Clan and the Trade Federation.”
“Only until the plasma begins to flow,” Damask said. “I
understand your trepidation. But the question you need to
ask yourselves is whether you can win the crown without our
help.” Separate conversations erupted at every table.
“I suppose so, Magister,” Tapalo said, signaling for quiet.
“But perhaps it’s better to run the risk of defeat rather than
ascend to the throne in dishonor.”
“Dishonor?” Hill repeated in aggrieved disbelief. “Have we crossed the galaxy to be insulted?”
“Wait,” Veruna said, coming to his feet and gesturing for
calm. “We meant no insult to Damask Holdings.” He turned
to face Tapalo and his handpicked team of ministers and
advisers. “Yes, we must be mindful of the concerns of the
present electorate, but we shouldn’t allow the fearful voices
of a few to cripple our chance of joining the galactic
community and raising the profile of the entire Chommell
sector. I suggest we act boldly. To avoid being perceived
as having bowed to pressure, I say we use this
unprecedented visit by Damask Holdings to announce
publicly that we and we alone are capable of entering into
an arrangement with the Banking Clan and others that will
allow Naboo to restructure its debt, achieve favored-world
status with the Core, and provide for tax cuts, lower interest
rates, and endless opportunities for employment, both onand offworld.” He clenched his fist for emphasis. “We must
seize this moment before it disappears.” Slowly, Tapalo and the others began to nod in
agreement.
“Do you have anything to add, Magister Damask?”
Tapalo said at last. Damask spread his hands. “Only that we couldn’t have
stated our case any better than Theed’s future governor
already has.”
“Hear, hear,” one of Tapalo’s advisers said, lifting his
goblet of wine in a toast to Veruna.
The rest followed suit, and drank.
And Damask thought: One day soon, Veruna will be the King of Naboo.
The plan called for the Muuns to spend the night in Theed
and resume talks in the morning. With Hill and the others
being shown to accommodations, Plagueis excused
himself and struck out on foot for the university building on
the opposite side of the city. His route took him through
leafy parks, over two bridges, past towers and obelisks,
and through the heart of Palace Plaza, with its pair of
triumphal arches. Crowned by a statue of a human figure,
the university’s central rotunda was set back from one of
the Solleu tributaries, dominating a precinct of stately
buildings and public places. Plagueis located the student
center and went to the registration desk, which was staffed
by a young fair-haired female who stared openly at him as
he approached.
“I’m looking for a student named Palpatine,” he said in Basic.
“I know him,” she said, nodding.
“Do you know where I might find him just now? Is he
perhaps attending a class?” She blew out her breath. “He comes and goes. Maybe I
saw him at the Youth Program Building.”
“Maybe.”
“I think it was him.” Humans, Plagueis thought. “Can you direct me there?” Her answer was a flimsi map, which Plagueis used to weave his way across campus to the headquarters of the
Legislative Youth Program—an organization that oversaw
Naboo’s mandatory public service curricula. Young people
of both sexes buzzed about him, some scarcely noticing
him, others going out of their way to get a closer look. At
various times he asked after Palpatine, and was able to
narrow his search to a square that fronted the columned
library, where he eventually recognized Palpatine from
holos Hill had provided, walking briskly through the square
in the company of a human male nearly twice his age,
black-haired and wearing more formal attire. Palpatine
himself was dressed in slacks, short boots, and a loosefitting shirt that was closed at the collar. Of average height,
he had wavy red hair, a prominent nose, and a narrow face
that humans would probably have found friendly. His back was straight, his arms were long relative to the length of his
torso, and he moved with an easy grace.
For some time Plagueis observed him from a distance,
approaching only after Palpatine had parted company with
the older man. Palpatine didn’t spy him until Plagueis was
only steps away, and when he did he turned sharply and
began to walk in the opposite direction.
“Young human,” Plagueis said, hastening his own pace.
“A moment of your time.” When Palpatine failed to
acknowledge him, he lengthened his stride and called:
“Palpatine.” Slowing to a reluctant halt, Palpatine looked over his
shoulder. “How do you know my name?”
“I know more about you than just your name,” Plagueis
said, coming abreast of him.
Interest and caution mingled in Palpatine’s blue eyes.
“Normally I take exception to people claiming to know
something about me, but since I know something about
you, as well, I’ll restrain myself.”
From doing what? Plagueis wondered. “What is it you
know about me?” Palpatine exhaled in mild impatience. “You’re Hego Damask. The president—no, the ‘Magister’—of Damask
Holdings. My father said that you were coming to Naboo to meet with Bon Tapalo. Your group is shoring up his bid for
the throne.”
“Did your father say that I might be coming to meet with
you also?”
“Why would he? And what exactly is it you want with me?”
“I believe we have something in common.”
“I very much doubt that.”
“Perhaps all the more reason to become acquainted,
then.” Palpatine glanced around him, as if searching for an
escape.
“Who was the man you were speaking with earlier?” Plagueis asked. Palpatine started to say something, then cut himself off
and began again. “My mentor in the youth program. His
name is Vidar Kim. He’s an aide to Naboo’s Republic Senator, and will likely succeed her.” He looked hard at
Plagueis. “And not a supporter of Tapalo.” Plagueis weighed the response. “Are you interested in
politics beyond your participation in the Legislative Youth
Program?”
“I’m not sure what Iwant to do after university.”
“But you’ve some interest in politics.”
“I didn’t say that. I said Iwasn’t sure.” Plagueis nodded and looked up at the library building.
“I’m a stranger to Theed. Would you consider showing me
around?” Palpatine’s jaw dropped a bit. “Listen, I’m—”
“Just a short tour.”
Engaging in small talk, they walked along the river in the
direction of the concert hall and Queen Yram’s Needle, then
crossed a footbridge and began to angle toward the palace
complex. Aside from providing Plagueis with holos of
Palpatine, Larsh Hill hadn’t been able offer much
information regarding the youth’s background. Though he
lacked an appellation, Palpatine’s father was a wealthy,
influential royal, with a reputation for advocating for Naboo’s continued independence and isolation. The family
name was thought to be an ancient name of state among
hereditary noble families, or perhaps a name borrowed
from an ancient region of Naboo.
“Theed is a beautiful city,” Plagueis remarked as they
emerged from a narrow lane into the Palace Plaza.
“If you like museums,” Palpatine said offhandedly.
“You’ve no interest in art?” Palpatine looked at him sideways. “I enjoy art. But I’m
more of a minimalist.”
“In all things?”
“Iwish Theed weren’t so crowded. Iwish the winters were milder. Iwish our King had fewer advisers and ministers.”
“That sounds like a political statement.”
“It’s simply my personal opinion.”
“They’re not mutually exclusive.” Palpatine stopped short. “What are you attempting to
draw out of me?” Plagueis indicated a nearby bench. When Palpatine
finally relented and sat down, Plagueis said, “It has come to my attention that you were responsible for the release of
some information that has aided Tapalo’s campaign.” Genuine surprise blossomed on Palpatine’s face. “How —”Plagueis held up a hand. “That isn’t important right now. What is is that you did so against what would have been the wishes of your father, your mentor, and some of the other
royals.”
“Are you planning to divulge this?” Plagueis searched Palpatine’s face. “What might
happen if I did?”
“To begin with, my father would murder me.”
“Literally?” Palpatine exhaled forcefully. “He would disown me.”
“It’s true, then. You and your father find yourselves on
opposite sides of the issues that animate the coming
election.” Palpatine lowered his gaze to the ground. “It would be far
stranger to find ourselves on the same side of any issue.” He looked up again at Plagueis. “I want to see Naboo
break with the past. I want us to belong to the greater
galaxy. Is it wrong to want to play an important role in the
history of the Republic?” Plagueis rocked his head. “Governments rise and fall.”
“You have a better idea of how to govern the galaxy?” Plagueis allowed a laugh. “I’m just an old Muun who wouldn’t know about that.” Seeing through him, Palpatine snorted. “Just how old are
you?”
“In human years Iwould be well over one hundred.” Palpatine whistled. “I envy you that.”
“Why?”
“All the things you’ve done and can still do.”
“What would you do?”
“Everything,” Palpatine said.
They got up from the bench and began to amble back
toward the university complex. Plagueis submerged himself
deeply in the Force to study Palpatine, but he was unable to
glean very much. Humans were difficult to read in the
easiest of cases, and Palpatine’s mind was awash in
conflict. So much going on in that small brain, Plagueis
told himself. So much emotional current and self-interest. So unlike the predictable, focused intellects of the Outer Rim sentients, especially the hive-minded among them. Palpatine stopped alongside a brightly colored, triplefinned landspeeder with a pointed nose and a repulsorlift
engine that looked powerful enough to raise a loadlifter
droid.
“This vehicle is yours?” Plagueis asked. Pride shone in Palpatine’s eyes. “A prototype patrolgrade Flash. Irace competitively.”
“Do you win?”
“Why else would I bother racing?” Climbing into the
speeder, Palpatine centered himself at the controls.
“I have just the thing to adorn your rearview mirror,” Plagueis said. From his breast pocket he fished a coin of
pure aurodium dangling from a length of chain, and
dropped it into the palm of Palpatine’s hand. “It’s an
antique.”
The young human appraised the gift. “I’ve never seen
anything like it.”
“It’s yours.” Palpatine showed him a questioning look.
“Who knows, perhaps you’ll go into banking one day,” Plagueis said. Palpatine laughed in a relaxed way. “Unlikely, Magister Damask.”
“I suppose there are better ways to earn credits.” Palpatine shook his head. “Credits don’t interest me.”
“I’m beginning to wonder just what does.” Palpatine bit back whatever he was about to say.
“Palpatine, I wonder how you would feel about working with us—Damask Holdings, Imean.” Palpatine’s thick eyebrows beetled. “In what capacity?”
“To be perfectly blunt, as a kind of spy.” He went on
before Palpatine could speak. “I won’t say that you and I want the same things for Naboo, because clearly—and
notwithstanding your feelings about the architecture—you
hold your world dear. My group, however, is less interested
in Naboo’s government than it is in Naboo’s plasma and what it will fetch on the open market.” Palpatine looked as if the plain truth was something new
to him. “If you had phrased that any differently, I would have
rejected your offer out of hand.”
“Then you accept? You’re willing to update us regarding whatever political machinations your father’s group may
have in the works?”
“Only if I can report directly to you.” Plagueis tried once more to see him in the Force. “Is that
your wish?” Palpatine returned a sober nod. “It is.”
“Then by all means, you’ll report exclusively to me,” Plagueis said. “I’ll see to it that the necessary
arrangements are made.” He stepped away from the
speeder as Palpatine powered it up. Palpatine fell silent for a moment. “I could take you for a
ride tomorrow,” he said at last, above the whine of the
engine. “If you have time, I mean. Show you some more of
Theed and the outskirts.”
“If I have your word you won’t go too fast.” Palpatine smiled wickedly. “Only fast enough to keep it
interesting.”
10: THE CYCLE OF VIOLENCE
Flying a meter above the ground, Palpatine’s agile speeder
skimmed over the plains below Theed plateau, leaving long
curving trails in the tall grasses. The day was bright and
clear, the warm air abuzz with insects and strewn with
pollen.
“Exhilarating,” Plagueis said from the passenger-side
bucket seat when Palpatine’s foot had eased off the
accelerator.
“Maybe I’ll become a professional racer.”
“The Naboo might expect more of the eldest son of
House Palpatine.”
“I ignore the expectations of others,” Palpatine said without looking at him.
“Was the speeder a gift from your father?” Palpatine glanced at him. “A bribe—but one I accepted.”
“Does he approve of your racing?” Palpatine made a harsh sound. “My father hasn’t ridden with me for years.”
“He doesn’t know what he’s missing.”
“It has nothing to do with my talents.” Palpatine turned
slightly in the driver’s seat. “When I was younger I was
responsible for the deaths of two pedestrians. At the time, my father threatened never to allow me to fly, but he
eventually relented.”
“What made him change his mind?” Palpatine swung forward. “Iwore him down.”
“I’m sorry,” Plagueis said. “I didn’t know.” Although, in fact, he did know. With help from 11-4D he
had learned that Palpatine’s troubled past had seen him
bounced from one private school to the next, following
incidents of petty crime and offenses that would have
landed a commoner in a correctional facility. Time and
again his father, who shared with his son a penchant for
violence, had used his influence to rescue Palpatine and
avoid the specter of family scandals. To Plagueis, however,
the youth’s transgressions were only further indication of his
exceptionality. Here was a youth who had already risen
above common morality and had judged himself unique
enough to create an individual code of ethics. Palpatine pointed to the distant tree line. “There are
some ancient ruins in there, but that’s Gungan territory.”
“Have you had any dealings with them?”
“Personally, no. But I’ve seen the ones that come into Moenia to trade for goods.”
“What are your thoughts about them?”
“Aside from the fact that they are long-eared, slimytongued primitives?”
“Aside from that, yes.” Palpatine shrugged. “I don’t mind them, so long as they
keep to their submerged cities and waterways.”
“Not get in the way.”
“Exactly. Humans deserve to have the upper hand here.” Plagueis could not restrain a smile. “There are many worlds in the galaxy where the matter of who has the upper
hand, as it were, is in dispute.”
“That’s because most beings are afraid to take charge.
Think what the Republic Senate might accomplish under
the leadership of a strong being.”
“I have given thought to that, Palpatine.”
“What does the Senate do in response to each and every
crisis? It dispatches the Jedi to restore order, and moves
on without addressing the roots of the problem.” Plagueis found the boy’s youthful ignorance entertaining.
“The Jedi could rule the Republic if they wished,” he said
after a moment. “I suppose we should be grateful that the Order is dedicated to peace.” Palpatine shook his head. “I don’t view it like that. I think
that the Jedi have dedicated themselves to limiting change.
They wait for the Senate to tell them when and where to
intervene, and what to fix, when in fact they could use the
Force to impose their will on the entire galaxy, if they wanted. I’d have more respect for them if they did.”
“Do you grant your father respect when he attempts to
impose his will on you?” Palpatine’s grip on the steering yoke tightened. “That’s
different. The reason I don’t respect him is because he’s
not half as intelligent as he thinks he is. If he could admit to
his weaknesses, I could at least pity him.” Bringing the speeder to a sudden halt, he turned toward
Plagueis once more, his face flushed with anger. Between
them, dangling from the rearview mirror, was the coin Plagueis had given him. Before long, I will own this human, Plagueis told himself.
“House Palpatine is wealthy,” the youth went on, “but not
nearly as wealthy as some of the other houses, and not
nearly as influential with the King and the electorate,
despite my father’s attempts to take a leadership position with the royals. He lacks the political acumen needed to
elevate our House to a position of true entitlement, and
along with it the awareness to recognize that the time has
come for Naboo to exploit its matchless resources and join
the modern galaxy. Instead, he and his cronies, in complete
and utter political ineptitude, want to keep us caged in the
past.”
“Does your mother share his views?” Palpatine forced a laugh. “Only because she espouses
no views of her own; only because he has made her
subservient to him—as he has my well-behaved brothers
and sisters, who treat me like an interloper and yet, to my
father, represent all I can never be.” Plagueis considered the remarks in silence. “And yet you
honor your House by going by its name.” Palpatine’s expression softened. “For a time I thought
about adopting the name of our distaff line. I haven’t
rejected the dynasty Iwas born into. I’ve rejected the name I was given. But not for the grandiose reasons some think.
Just the opposite, actually. I’m certain that you, of all beings,
understand as much.”
There it was again, Plagueis thought: the deceptive
cadence; the use of flattery, charm, and self-effacement as
if rapier feints in a duel. The need to be seen as guileless,
unassuming, empathetic. A youth with no desire to enter
politics, and yet born for it.
Tenebrous had told him from the start that the Republic, with help from the Sith, would continue to descend into
corruption and disorder, and that a time would come when
it would have to rely on the strengths of an enlightened
leader, capable of saving the lesser masses from being
ruled by their unruly passions, jealousies, and desires. In
the face of a common enemy, real or manufactured, they would set aside all their differences and embrace the
leadership of anyone who promised a brighter future. Could
this Palpatine, with Plagueis’s help, be the one to bring
about such a transformation?
Again he tried to see deeper into Palpatine, but without
success. The psychic walls the youth had raised were
impenetrable, which made the young human something
rare indeed. Had Palpatine somehow learned to corral the
Force within himself, as Plagueis had concealed his own
powers as a youth?
“Of course I understand,” he said finally.
“But … when you were young, did you question your motivations, especially when they ran counter to everyone
else’s?” Plagueis held his challenging gaze. “I never asked why
this or why that, what if this or what if that. I simply
responded to my own determination.” Palpatine sat back in the speeder seat as if a great weight had been lifted from him.
“Some of us are required to do what others cannot,” Plagueis added in a conspiratorial way. Without a word, Palpatine nodded. Plagueis had no need to delve any further into whatever
traumas had given rise to Palpatine’s cunning, secretive
nature. He simply needed to know: Does this young
human have the Force?
Two standard days later, on Malastare—a world of varied
terrain that occupied a prime position on the Hydian Way—
even the deafening clatter and nauseating odor of
speeding Podracers wasn’t enough to distract Plagueis
from thinking about Palpatine. Damask Holdings had
requested a meeting with Senator Pax Teem, and the
leader of the Gran Protectorate had provided the Muuns with box seats for the Phoebos Memorial Run. They had
arrived directly from Naboo in the expectation of discussing
business matters, but the Gran, Dugs, Xi Charrians, and
nearly everyone else in the city of Pixelito were more
interested in sport and betting.
“Have you picked a winner, Magister?” Pax Teem asked
after two Podracers ripped past the viewing stands.
Lost in his thoughts about Naboo, Plagueis said, “I
believe I have.” His conversations with Palpatine seemed to have
opened some sort of emotional floodgates in the human.
The Muuns had scarcely left Naboo behind when the first of
several holocommuniqués was received from Palpatine,
regarding the royals’ latest plans for undermining Bon
Tapalo’s bid for the monarchy. Plagueis had listened
attentively, but, in fact, Palpatine had precious little to offer. Since the release of the information about the royals’
actions during the Gungan conflict, Palpatine’s father had
been conducting his meetings behind closed doors at the
family estate, and had forbidden his son from so much as
discussing the coming election. Tapalo’s campaign, by
contrast, was on the upswing, as a result of having
announced a pending deal with the InterGalactic Banking
Clan. The urgency of Palpatine’s transmissions suggested
that he had formed an attachment to Plagueis and was
reaching out to him not only as a secret employer but also
as a potential adviser. In Hego Damask, Palpatine saw the wealth and power he had long sought for House Palpatine. Confident that the young human would continue to be useful
long after Damask Holdings’ plans for Naboo had been
realized, Plagueis did nothing to discourage the
attachment.
“Why is it that we never see humans competing in the
races?” he asked Teem after a moment.
The Gran waved his six-fingered hand in dismissal. “They
haven’t the talent for it. The favorite to win today is the Dug
at the controls of the blue racer.” Plagueis tracked the Podracer for a moment. In the
stands below him, thousands of Dugs—standing on all four
appendages, on hind legs, or supported on arms only—
were barking encouragement. Plagueis found Malastare’s high gravity oppressive, and
the Gran more so. They had arrived on the planet a
thousand years earlier as colonists, and had proceeded to
beat the native Dugs into submission. The protectorate had
since grown to overshadow the Gran homeworld, Kinyen,
and was a powerful force within the Republic Senate, with wide-ranging influence in the Mid and Outer Rims.
Seated alongside Plagueis, Larsh Hill leaned forward to
address Pax Teem. “Perhaps Gardulla will be able to
entice humans to pilot Podracers in the course she is
refurbishing on Tatooine.”
Teem honked in irritation. “So it’s true: you support the Hutt.”
“It’s simply business,” Hill said. But Teem was not appeased. “Is this the purpose of your
visit—to reopen wounds that have not yet healed?”
“Yes,” Plagueis said flatly.
Teem’s trio of eyestalks swung to him. “I don’t—”
“Don’t compound the offense,” Hill interrupted.
Teem feigned incomprehension.
“From whom did you learn of our interests on Naboo?” Plagueis asked.
The Gran looked to his comrades, but found no support
in their abrupt silence.
“From whom?” Plagueis repeated. A low of resignation escaped Teem. “We were
approached by Subtext Mining, following the unexplained
disappearance of some of its members—the ones I
encountered on Sojourn, I suspect.”
“They were in fine health when they left the Gathering,” Hill said.
Teem nodded. “I’m certain they were.”
“Why did Subtext approach you?” Plagueis said.
Teem hesitated, then said, “To inform us that you are
involved in a deal for the plasma.”
“Trusting that you would try to subvert our efforts by making them public,” Hill said.
The Gran snorted. “First you strike a deal with Gardulla
that favors Tatooine over Malastare, and now Naboo’s
plasma captures your attention, despite your offer to
increase the cost of Malastare’s energy exports. So why
shouldn’t we have alerted your opponents on Naboo, when
you would have done the same?” Plagueis waited for him to finish, and for a group of
Podracers to pass; then he fixed his gaze on the
assembled Gran. “You harm yourselves by attempting to
sabotage us. The Protectorate could have profited from
Naboo, as the Trade Federation will, but no longer.” Pax Teem’s huge feet slapped the floor of the private
box. “We refuse to be demeaned! Again I remind you, Magister, that promises were made.” Plagueis smiled inwardly. It was true that Tenebrous had
had plans for the Gran. At one time Pax Teem had been put
forth as someone the Sith could move into the
chancellorship and manipulate from a distance into making mistakes that would bring the Republic to its knees. But
Plagueis had now begun to explore other options.
“We are not without allies and cronies in the Senate,”
Teem was saying in a huff. “We can crush any legislation
you wish to see passed, or arrange for your bills and no-bid
contracts to languish in procedure for years. We’ll put one
of our own into the chancellorship. We’ll deny the Trade
Federation shipping rights on Kinyen and along the Trade Spine. We’ll turn the Dugs loose on the Muuns.” He glared
at Plagueis. “You’ll never get what you want, Magister.”
“On the contrary,” Plagueis said, as he and the other Muuns were rising. “I already have what Iwant.” A rousing cheer went up from the stands as a Toong pilot
overtook the favored Dug. Plagueis turned to Hill as they were exiting the private
box. “Order the Sun Guard to retrieve the miners we marooned in the Tingel Arm. Execute them and have their
bodies dumped at the gates of Subtext Mining’s corporate
headquarters on Corellia.”
A freshly minted Capital-class starship returned Plagueis
and Hill to Naboo. Manufactured by Hoersch-Kessel and
Gwori, the vessel was shaped like an elongated pod with a
flat underbelly. A lateral wing transected the convex hull aft,
in which were housed arrays of powerful hyperwave
transceivers. On board along with the chief executives of
Damask Holdings were several high-ranking members of
the Banking Clan, including the nephew of Chairman
Tonith, all of them dressed in full IBC regalia. A month had passed since Plagueis’s initial visit, and in
the interim he and Palpatine had spoken by holo on many
occasions. The intelligence the human provided, though
scant, had allowed Plagueis and Hill to keep one step
ahead of Bon Tapalo’s detractors, and as a result he
continued to enjoy a slight margin with the electorate.
The Muun groups were approaching Naboo’s spaceport
immigration stations when they were intercepted by a
contingent of armed security personal wearing leather
jerkins, tall boots, and brimmed hats. Ushered into a glass- walled holding area equipped with not much more than
benches and refresher units, the Muuns waited for over an
hour until two Palace Guards entered, demanding to know
which of them was Hego Damask. After identifying himself and assuring Larsh Hill that he
needn’t worry, Plagueis followed the guards outside the
terminal to a waiting round-nosed Gian speeder. A
uniformed guard seated at the controls ordered Plagueis
into the open-topped speeder’s rear bench seat, where
one of the escort personnel joined him. He didn’t have a
clue as to where he was being taken, but refused to give
the guards the satisfaction of telling him that he would soon
find out, or words to that effect. Instead he sat silently in the
cushioned seat, careful not to register even the slightest
surprise when the pilot began to steer the speeder away
from Theed and out across the rolling verdant terrain Palpatine had taken him through.
“You may as well make yourself comfortable,” his
seatmate said at last. “We’ll be traveling for about two
hours.” Plagueis nodded in response and allowed himself to drift
into a light trance, in preparation for whatever lay in wait for
him at their destination. Gradually the undulating plains
began to rise and a ridge of mountains came into view,
limned against Naboo’s brilliant blue sky. The speeder
followed a broad river valley into hills lush with foliage, where herds of short-limbed shaaks grazed and frolicked. As the speeder gained altitude, the river narrowed and
quickened, fed by waterfalls and crystalline lakes. Pure white clouds were beginning to form at the summits of the
higher peaks when the speeder slewed across a vast
stretch of meadow and came to a halt in front of a majestic
home built in the style of Theed’s fat domes and graceful
towers. Two of the guards led him up a wide flight of stone
stairs into a cool and dimly lighted foyer. Abandoned there, Plagueis wandered past wall hangings and plinthed
statuary to the opposite end of the foyer, where roundtopped, floor-to-ceiling windows overlooked a veranda and
a large lake beyond. Seated at a table were an aristocraticlooking female human of middle age and a sulking male
youth of Palpatine’s age or younger, engaged in what
appeared to be serious conversation. Touched by a breeze
coming down off the slopes of the mountains, the surface of
the water sparkled like Mygeeto gemstones. As Plagueis
turned his back to the lake, his attention was drawn to a
tapestry depicting the same family crest he had observed
on the pocket of Palpatine’s jacket, and featuring a trio of
creatures: veermok, aiwha, and zalaaca. He became aware of someone approaching him from
behind, but didn’t budge.
“Beautiful work, isn’t it?” a basso-voiced human said in Basic. Plagueis turned to find a tall man of patrician bearing
standing at the threshold to a larger room.
“As is the view,” Plagueis said, gesturing broadly toward
the lake. Dressed casually, though in fine taste, the silver-haired man advanced into the foyer. “I’m so glad you decided to
accept my invitation to visit, Magister Damask.”
“The presence of armed guards suggested an absence
of choice, Cosinga Palpatine.”
“They were for your protection, Magister.”
“I never thought of Naboo as a dangerous world.”
“For some it is,” the elder Palpatine said. “But now that
you are here, allow me to show you around.”
The tour took them through a dozen rooms adorned with
plush carpets and works of art. Stonework predominated,
but the furniture was constructed of the galaxy’s most prized
hardwoods. By the time they stepped down onto the
veranda the woman and the youth were nowhere to be
seen, but the breeze had picked up and a storm was
threatening. Cosinga Palpatine indicated an island in the
distance, and the stately house that rose from the shore.
“That is Varykino,” he explained. “A prize of the Lake Country. Once owned by the poet Omar Berenko, and
presently occupied by the Naberrie family.” He glanced at
Plagueis. “Are you perhaps familiar with Berenko’s masterwork, The Defense of Naboo?”
“Sadly, no.”
“I’ll arrange for you to be provided with a translation.”
“A copy in the original text would be fine. I’m fluent in your
language.”
Testing him, Cosinga Palpatine switched to Naboo to
say, “Yes, I understand you’ve become quite the expert on Naboo politics.” Before Plagueis could respond, he waved
his hand in front of a sensor that summoned three servants
onto the veranda, each bearing trays of food and drink. Plagueis exhaled in a fatigued way. More food, he
thought; more olfactory stimulation for human noses.
They sat opposite each other at the same table the woman and youth had occupied earlier, and remained
silent while the servants laid out the repast.
“Fresh fruits, vegetables, and farinaceous dishes,” Palpatine said, indicating the spread. “No shaak or other meats.” Plagueis forced a smile. “Perhaps you’ll take up a study
of the Muun language next.” His host frowned, then sat back in his chair to allow the
servants to heap food on his plates. He didn’t begin eating
until the servants had exited, and stopped after only a few mouthfuls and set his utensils down with finality.
“Let me tell you a short story about Bon Tapalo and Ars Veruna,” he began, glowering at Plagueis. “Seventy years
ago, some two decades after our own conflict with them,
the Gungans found themselves embroiled in a war for
survival with a mercenary army. Fortunately the Gungans
prevailed, though not without many deaths and the loss of
some of their swamp cities. Very little was ever made
public regarding the cause of the war or the source of the mercenaries, but I’m willing to let you in on one of Naboo’s
darker secrets, in the hope that you’ll learn something from
it. The reason for the war was plasma, and the Houses that
contributed most to funding the mercenary army were House Tapalo and House Veruna. When my grandfather
learned of this he challenged Tapalo’s father to a duel of
honor, and eventually succumbed to the injuries Tapalo’s
blade inflicted.” He gestured to a lawn that bordered the
veranda. “The duel took place just there.” Plagueis glanced at the spot. “How utterly romantic and
human.” Cosinga Palpatine’s handsome face took on color.
“Perhaps you fail to grasp the point of the story, Magister.
Tapalo, Veruna, and the rest of that group of thugs are
interested only in power and wealth, at whatever cost to Naboo. The discovery of a plasma reservoir below Theed was the worst thing that could have happened. And now
they mean to exploit it for all it’s worth, with the aid of
influential beings like yourself. This is why Tapalo must
never be king.” Plagueis pretended to consider it, then said, “It would
appear that the electorate disagrees with you.” Palpatine nodded. “For now, yes. But we have plans for
bringing the electorate back into line. Beginning with an
announcement that the deal Tapalo struck with the Banking
Clan has fallen through.”
“Iwasn’t aware that it had,” Plagueis said evenly. Palpatine became angrier as he spoke. “Why do you
think we stopped your party from entering Theed? We still wield enough power to keep you from setting foot on Naboo. And you may as well hear the rest of it, Magister.
The Republic Senate has been apprised of Muunilinst’s
attempt to meddle with and destabilize the sovereignty of
our world.” When Plagueis didn’t respond, he added, “The Naboo have a legend about six impenetrable gates that
hold back chaos. House Palpatine is one of those gates, Damask.”
“And we Muuns represent chaos,” Plagueis said, without making it sound like a question. Palpatine leaned forward and spoke in a calmer voice.
“We are not opposed to having Naboo join the galactic
community when the time is right. But not now, and not like
this. Tapalo’s promise of tax cuts and trade with the Core … Those are the very tactics the Republic deploys to
seduce primitive worlds into surrendering their resources.” He shook his head as anger took hold of him once more.
“The Naboo admire philosophers, not bankers and deal
brokers. Tapalo’s election to the throne would lead to
catastrophe.”
“The Defense of Naboo,” Plagueis said. “The poem you mentioned.”
“What about it?”
“What ever became of the author—Berenko?” Cosinga Palpatine’s eyes narrowed to slits. “He was
abducted by assailants and never found.” He rose halfway
out of his chair to add, “Are you threatening me—here, in my own home?” Plagueis made a placating gesture. “I thought we were
discussing history. I only meant to ask what might happen if
you are unsuccessful in … restraining chaos, and Tapalo wins despite your best efforts?”
“I’ve already told you that that will not happen.And here is why: because you’re going to tell your friends in the Banking Clan and the Trade Federation that you’ve lost
interest in Naboo. That you’ve found better company
among the Hutts, slavers, and spicerunners of the Outer Rim.” He paused momentarily. “You’re a very long way from
Muunilinst, Magister Damask. I strongly suggest that you
reboard your ship and leave the Chommell sector as
quickly and as quietly as possible, lest anyone fall victim to
an untoward event.” Plagueis stared at the lake. “I take your meaning, Cosinga Palpatine,” he said, without looking at him.
“And one more thing,” Palpatine said, emboldened. “I
don’t know precisely why you’ve taken such a keen interest
in my son, or he in you, but you’re to have no further
dealings with him.” Plagueis turned to him. “Your son has great potential.”
“Potential I don’t wish to see despoiled by your kind. We’re moving him out of your reach, in any case.”
“I’d been given to believe that the Naboo were an open
people. But then, the Gungans probably wouldn’t agree,
either.” Palpatine stood up sharply. “Enough of this. Guard!” he
said. And when three of them hurried in: “Get him out of my
sight.”
11: AVATAR OF MORTALITY
The planet Chandrila sponsored a monthlong retreat for members of the Legislative Youth Program. Once a year
young beings from a host of worlds arrived to participate in mock Senate trials in and around Hanna City and to tour Chandrila’s vast agricultural projects, wilderness areas,
coral reefs, and garden parks. It was in Gladean Park—a
game reserve outside coastal Hanna—that Plagueis paid
young Palpatine an unannounced visit. But it was Plagueis who was surprised.
“I knew you would come, Magister,” Palpatine said when Plagueis and 11-4D turned up at one of the game reserve’s
viewing blinds.
“How did you know?”
“I knew, that’s all.”
“And just how often are your premonitions correct?”
“Almost always.”
“Curious,” 11-4D remarked while Palpatine was hurrying
away to excuse himself from the company of two friends. Plagueis recognized the older male as Palpatine’s mentor in the youth program, Vidar Kim, and sensed that
the comely black-haired female was Kim’s paramour. At
the conclusion of Palpatine’s animated explanation, Kim
turned his head to show Plagueis a look of disapproval
before moving off with his companion.
“Your mentor doesn’t care much for me,” he said when Palpatine returned. Palpatine dismissed it. “He doesn’t know you.” Standard weeks had passed without any communication
between the two of them. Judging by Palpatine’s mood, he
knew nothing about the forced meeting in the Lake Country,
and yet he was agitated just the same, possibly in reaction
to something Cosinga had done to monitor or foil his son’s
offworld holotransmissions. With Damask Holdings’ secret
agent silenced, the royals had gained ground. Despite
Tapalo’s denials that the deal with the Banking Clan had
dissolved, the travel ban imposed on the Muuns had
planted seeds of doubt among the electors, and the contest
for the throne was becoming more heated with each
passing day. Worse, the Banking Clan’s interest in Naboo was beginning to wane.
“We’ll have to keep this meeting brief,” Plagueis told
Palpatine while they were following an elevated pathway
that connected the viewing blind to one of the park’s rustic
lodges. “Your father may have dispatched surveillance
personnel.” Palpatine ridiculed the idea. “He is monitoring my
offworld communiqués—that’s why you haven’t heard from
me—but even he knows better than to have me watched.”
“You underestimate him, Palpatine,” Plagueis said,
stopping in the middle of the pathway. “I spoke with him at
Convergence.” Palpatine’s mouth fell open. “The lake house? When?
How—” Plagueis made a soothing gesture and explained in
great detail what had taken place. Concluding, he said, “He
threatened, too, to place you out of reach.” All the while Plagueis spoke, Palpatine was storming
through circles on the narrow path, shaking his head in
anger and balling his fists. “He can’t do this!” he snarled.
“He hasn’t the right! Iwon’t allow it!” Palpatine’s fury buffeted Plagueis. Blossoms growing
along the sides of the pathway folded in on themselves, and
their pollinators began to buzz in agitation. FourDee
reacted, as well, wobbling on its feet, as if in the grip of a
powerful electromagnet. Had this human truly been born of
flesh-and-blood parents? Plagueis asked himself. When, in
fact, he seemed sprung from nature itself. Was the Force
so strong in him that it had concealed itself?
Palpatine came to a sudden halt and whirled on Plagueis. “You have to help me!”
“How can I help you?” Plagueis asked. “He’s your father.”
“Tell me what to do! Tell me what you would do!” Plagueis placed a hand on Palpatine’s shoulder and
began to walk slowly. “You could use this incident as a means of emancipating yourself.” Palpatine frowned. “Naboo doesn’t honor that practice.
I’m in his sway until I’m twenty-one years old.”
“The legalities of emancipation don’t interest me, and
they shouldn’t interest you. I speak of freeing yourself—of
completing the act of recreation you began when you
rejected your given name.”
“You mean disobey him?”
“If that’s as far as you’re willing to go. And without thought
to consequences.”
“I’ve wanted to …”
“Uncertainty is the first step toward self-determination,” Plagueis said. “Courage comes next.” Palpatine shook his head, as if to clear it. “What would I
do?”
“What do you want to do, Palpatine? If the choice was
yours and yours alone.”
The youth hesitated. “I don’t want to live as ordinary
beings live.” Plagueis regarded him. “Do you fancy yourself
extraordinary?” Palpatine seemed embarrassed by the question. “I only meant that Iwant to live an extraordinary life.”
“Make no apologies for your desires. Extraordinary in what way?” Palpatine averted his eyes.
“Why are you holding back? If you’re going to dream,
then dream large.” Plagueis paused, then added, “You
hinted that you had no interest in politics. Is that true?” Palpatine firmed his lips. “Not entirely.” Plagueis came to a stop in the middle of the walkway.
“How deep does your interest go? To what position do you
aspire? Republic Senator? Monarch of Naboo? Supreme Chancellor of the Republic?” Palpatine glanced at him. “You’ll think less of me if I tell
you.”
“Now you underestimate me, as you do your father.” Palpatine took a breath and continued. “I want to be a
force for change.” His look hardened. “Iwant to rule.”
There! Plagueis thought. He admits it! And who better
than a human to wear the mask of power while an
immortal Sith Lord rules in secret!
“If that can’t happen, if you can’t rule, then what?”
Palpatine ground his teeth. “If not power, then nothing.” Plagueis smiled. “Suppose I said that I would be willing
to be your ally in the quest.” At a sudden loss for words, Palpatine stared at him; then
he managed to say, “What would you expect of me in
return?”
“Nothing more than that you commit to your intent to free
yourself. That you grant yourself the license to do whatever
is necessary to realize your ambitions, at whatever risk to
your alleged well-being and in full expectation of the
solitude that will ensue.”
They had not yet reached the lodge when Plagueis
steered them into a gazebo that occupied the center of a
luxuriant garden.
“I want to tell you something about my past,” he began. “I was born and raised not on Muunilinst but on a world called
Mygeeto, and not to my father’s primary wife but to a
second wife—what Muuns call a codicil partner. So I was a
young adult before my father was finally returned to Muunilinst and I had my first taste of the planet that gave
rise to my species. Owing to Muunilinst’s regulations
governing population growth, no Muun of less influence than my father would have been allowed to import a
nonindigenous offspring, let alone a half-clan. And yet the members of my father’s family regarded me as a
trespasser, lacking proper legality and the social aplomb
that comes to those born and raised on Muunilinst. For if
there is anything the Muun detest more than wasteful
spending it is nonconformity, and I had it in abundance.
“They were model citizens, my fair brothers and sisters:
insular, self-important, identical in their thinking, thrifty to a
fault, given to gossip, and it angered me deeply to have
been accepted by the galaxy’s downtrodden only to be
rejected by this hive of self-serving parochial beings. Much
to their further displeasure, they were forced to accept that I was a fully bonded clan member, entitled to the same share
of my father’s vast wealth as the rest of them. But as is the
case with all members of the elite clans, I had to prove myself worthy of the status by preparing successful financial
forecasts and allowing myself to be judged by the ruling
elect.
“I passed my tests and trials, but soon after, my father
took ill. On his deathbed I sought his advice concerning my
predicament, and he told me that I should do whatever I
needed to do, as my very survival was in jeopardy. He said
that lesser minds needed guidance, and punishment on
occasion, and that I shouldn’t hesitate to use whatever means necessary to protect my interests; that I owed as much to myself, my species, to life itself.” Plagueis paused.
“The cause of his premature death was determined to be
a rare genetic abnormality that affected the tertiary heart,
and one that all of my siblings had inherited, but I—having
been born to a different mother—had not. Panicked by the
thought of early death, my siblings launched a galactic
search for the finest geneticists credits could procure, and
ultimately one surfaced, claiming knowledge of a curative
procedure. And so they underwent treatment, each and
every one of them—my clan mother included—in full
confidence that they had dodged the family curse and could
soon return to their primary passion, which was to have me
legally ostracized from the family.” He looked hard at Palpatine.
“Little did they realize that I had hired the geneticist, and
that the treatments he provided were as phony as his
credentials. And so, in due course, they began to grow ill
and die, each of them, as I watched from afar, gloating,
even entertaining myself by feigning sadness at their
funerals and indifference at the allocation rituals that
transferred portions of their accumulated riches to me. Eventually I outlived all of them and inherited everything.” His amalgam of fact and fiction concluded, Plagueis
stood tall and folded his thin arms across his chest. In turn, Palpatine trained his gaze on the gazebo’s wooden floor. Plagueis detected the quiet whir of 11-4D’s photoreceptors
focusing on the youth.
“You think me a monster,” he said when a long moment
of silence had elapsed. Palpatine raised his head and said, “You underestimate me, Magister.”
Hanna City Spaceport was chaotic with the launch of
starships returning youth program trainees to their near and
distant homeworlds. In the central passenger cabin of the Naboo vessel Jafan III, Palpatine and a young trainee from
Keren were comparing notes on their experiences during
the previous week. On a track to becoming close friends
despite their political differences, the pair had segued into
discussing Naboo’s upcoming election when a flight
attendant interrupted them to say that Palpatine needed to
return immediately to the spaceport terminal. The attendant
didn’t know who had requested his presence or why, but no
sooner had he entered the connector than he recognized
the stern countenance of one of the security guards his
father had recently hired.
“Palpatine won’t be reboarding,” the guard told the
attendant. Confused, Palpatine demanded to know why he had
been removed from the ship.
“Your father is here,” the guard said after the attendant
had reentered the starship. He pointed through the
connector’s transparisteel viewport to the far side of the
field where sat a sleek starship bearing the crest of House Palpatine. Palpatine blinked in surprise. “When did he arrive?”
“An hour ago. Your mother and siblings are also aboard.”
“They didn’t say anything to me about coming here.”
“I wouldn’t know about that,” the guard said. “You’ve
already cleared Chandrila customs, so we can proceed
directly to the ship.” Palpatine glared at him. “Just discharging your orders, is
that it?” Unruffled, the guard shrugged his broad shoulders. “It’s a
job, kid. That’s the long and short of it.” Surrendering to the inevitable but angered by the sudden
change in plans, Palpatine trailed the guard through a maze
of similar connectors to one that accessed the family
starship. The elder Palpatine was waiting in the entry air
lock.
“Why wasn’t I informed of this beforehand?” Palpatine
demanded. His father nodded for the guard to seal the hatch. “Your mother and siblings are aft. I’ll join you there once we’ve
completed the jump.” Maneuvering around Palpatine, he
slipped into the cockpit. Palpatine turned to the air lock
hatch and considered leaving while he had the chance, but
ultimately thought better of it and went aft, though into not
the main compartment but a smaller one that housed the
communications suite. Strapped into an acceleration chair,
he stewed through the launch and the jump to hyperspace. Unfastening himself when the ship was between worlds, he
stood up and began to pace back and forth in the cabin,
and was still in motion when his father entered a few minutes later.
“Our course is set for Chommell Minor.” Palpatine stopped to stare at him.
“For the foreseeable future, you’re going to be residing with the Greejatus family. Clothes and other items we
thought you’d like to have with you are already aboard.” When Palpatine said nothing, he continued. “You and Janus
got along well the last time we visited. A change of scene will do you good.”
“You decided this without conferring with me?” Palpatine managed to ask at last. “What about my university
courses? What about my obligations to the youth
program?”
“That has all been arranged. You can partner with Janus
in Chommell Minor’s program.”
“The Greejatus’s hatred of nonhumans meets with your
approval, then.”
“Their chauvinism notwithstanding, I approve of them a lot more than I do your current friends.” Palpatine began shaking his head. “No. No.” His father’s tone turned harsh. “This is for your own
good.” Palpatine’s nostrils flared. “Father of lies,” he muttered.
“How would you know what’s good for me? Have you ever
even cared? This is about my friendship with Hego Damask, isn’t it?”
The elder Palpatine snorted in derision. “Is that what you
think it is? Damask is merely using you as a means of
securing information about our strategies for the election.”
“Of course he is.”
Taken aback momentarily, Cosinga said, “And yet you
continue to … befriend him.”
“What you consider the rape of Naboo, I consider to be
an essential step forward, and Hego Damask a blessing. He’s powerful, influential, and brilliant—more so than any of my professors. Head and shoulders above you or any of
your royal confederates.” Cosinga’s lip curled. “It begins to sound to me that this
confrontation goes beyond mere political differences.”
“You know it does. You’re using the situation as an
excuse to put me under your thumb again.”
“Which wouldn’t be necessary if you showed even the
slightest ability to conduct yourself appropriately.” Palpatine sniffed. “My social infractions and trespasses. I
refuse to go over old ground.”
“You’re easy on yourself, considering the shame you’ve
nearly brought on us.”
“I’ve brought no more shame on the family than you
have.”
“We’re not discussing me,” Cosinga said. Palpatine threw up his hands. “All right. Leave me on Chommell Minor—but Iwon’t remain there.”
“I can see to it that you do.”
“By assigning some of your musclemen to keep me in
line? I’m a lot smarter than them, Father.” Cosinga made his lips a thin line. “After what you already
did to counter our plans for Tapalo, there can be no hint of
scandal. Have you no idea what’s at stake for Naboo?”
“And for you,” Palpatine said, with a sly smile. “The
brother of your mistress becomes king, and you attain the
lofty position you’ve always desired but don’t deserve.” Cosinga flung his words with cruel abandon. “It will be so
good to have you gone.”
“Finally you admit as much.” Cosinga was suddenly crestfallen. “You’re as much a mystery to me now as you were when you were young.” Palpatine’s smile bloomed. “Only because you lack the
ability to understand me fully.”
“Grandiose, as ever.”
“Grandiose, in fact, Father. You have no idea what I’m
capable of. No one does.” Cosinga exhaled deeply. “I know that you are of my
blood, because I had you tested, just to be certain. But in
truth, I don’t know where you came from—who or what
you’re actually descended from.” He glared at Palpatine.
“Yes, there it is: that glower I have been on the receiving
end of for seventeen long years. As if you want to murder me. Murder has always been in your thoughts, hasn’t it?
You’ve merely been waiting for someone to grant you
permission to act.” A darkness came over Palpatine’s face. “I don’t need
anyone’s permission.”
“Precisely. You’re an animal at heart.”
“King of the beasts, Father,” Palpatine said.
“I knew this day would come. I’ve known it since the first moment I tried to swaddle you, and you fought me with a
strength that was too powerful for your size or age.” Palpatine looked out from beneath his quirked brows. “I was born mature, Father, fully grown, and you hated me for
it, because you grasped that Iwas everything you can never
be.”
“Hated you more than you know,” Cosinga said, allowing
his ire to rise once more. “Enough to want to kill you from
the start.” Palpatine stood his ground. “Then you had better do it
now.” Cosinga took a step in Palpatine’s direction, only to be
hurled back against the bulkhead separating the
communications room from the main cabin. A female voice
from behind the closed hatch asked in distress, “What was
that?” Nursing an injured shoulder, Cosinga looked suddenly
like a trapped animal, his eyes wide with surprise and fear. He made a move to strike the handplate that opened the
hatch, but Palpatine thwarted his effort without raising a
finger. Twisting violently around, Cosinga fell over one of
the acceleration chairs, bloodying his face as it struck the
armrest. A pounding began on the hatch.
“Guards!” Cosinga shouted, but the word had barely left
his lips when the bulkhead against which he was slouched
buckled inward, heaving him face-first to the floor and
driving the breath from him. Palpatine stood rooted in place, his hands trembling in
front of him and his face stricken. Something stirred behind
his incandescent eyes. He heard the pounding on the hatch
and whirled.
“Don’t come in! Stay away from me!”
“What have you done?” It was his mother’s voice,
panicked. “What have you done?”
Cosinga pushed himself to his knees and began a
terrified retreat, leaving smears of blood on the deck. But
Palpatine was advancing on him now.
“If the Force birthed you, then I curse it!” Cosinga rasped.
“I curse it!”
“As I do,” Palpatine growled.
The hatch began to slide to, and he heard the voice of
the guard who had escorted him from the Jafan III. “Stop!”
“Cosinga!” his mother screamed. Palpatine pressed the palms of his hands to his head,
then in eerie calm streaked to the hatch, pulled the
surprised guard through the threshold, and tossed him clear
across the cabin. Raising his face to the ceiling, he shouted, “We’re all in
this now!”
They could have been torturers: Plagueis and 11-4D,
leaning over an operating table on Aborah that supported
Venamis, still in an induced coma and now anesthetized,
as well; the droid’s appendages holding bloodied scalpels,
retractors, hemostats, and Plagueis, gowned and masked
and with eyes closed, his shadow puddled on the floor by
the theater lights, but in truth nowhere to be found in the mundane world. Folded deeply within the Force, instead,
indifferent to the meticulous damage 11-4D had done to
the Bith’s internal organs, but focused on communicating
his will directly to the Force’s intermediaries, the droid monitoring cellular activity for signs that Plagueis’s lifeextending manipulations, his thought experiments, were
having their intended effect. A sudden current of intense dark side energy snaked
through Plagueis. Stronger than any feeling he had
experienced since the death of Darth Tenebrous, replete with flashes of past, present, and perhaps future events, the
disturbance was powerful enough to snap him completely
out of his trance. A rite performed; a confirmation
conferred. Half expecting to find Venamis sitting upright on
the table, he opened his eyes to the sight of 11-4D shuffling
toward him from the operating theater’s communication
console. Plagueis’s mouth formed a question: “Hill?”
“No. The young human—Palpatine. A deep-space
transmission.” Plagueis hurried to the device. They hadn’t spoken since
the reunion on Chandrila, but Plagueis had been waiting, wondering if his manipulations had borne fruit. If not, then
he might have to take personal action to solidify the Naboo
gambit. Placing himself in view of the holocams, he took a moment to appraise the noisy image onscreen, Palpatine’s
face bathed in the flashing lights of an instrument panel,
something new in his eyes—color that hadn’t been there
previously. A glance at the comm board’s coordinate
readout; then:
“Where are you?”
“I’m not sure,” Palpatine said in clear distraction, his
gaze shifting to something off cam.
“You’re in a starship.” Palpatine nodded, swallowed, and found his voice. “The
family ship.”
“Read aloud the navicomputer coordinates.” When he had, Plagueis looked to 11-4D for elaboration.
“Rimward of Exodeen along the Hydian Way,” the droid
said. Plagueis absorbed it. “Contact the Sun Guard. Have
them ready a ship and prepare yourself to accompany
them.”
“Yes, Magister.” Plagueis swung back to the monitor screen. “Are you
capable of maintaining your present course?” Palpatine leaned to one side. “The autopilot is engaged.”
“Tell me what happened.”
The human took a deep breath. “My father arrived
unexpectedly on Chandrila. He had me taken from the youth
program vessel and brought to our ship. My mother and
siblings were already aboard. After the launch I learned that
I was being taken to Chommell Minor. Just as you warned. We fell into an argument … then, I’m not sure what
happened—”
“Tell me what happened,” Plagueis demanded.
“I killed them,” Palpatine snarled back. “I killed them—
even the guards.” Plagueis restrained a smile, knowing now that Naboo would be his. Over and done with. Now to reel him in
further, and ensure his continued usefulness.
“Did anyone on Chandrila observe you board the family
ship?” he asked quickly.
“Only the guard—and he’s dead. Everyone’s dead.”
“We need to return you quietly and covertly to Chandrila.
I’m sending help, my droid among them. Offer no
explanations of what occurred—even if asked—but follow
every command without question.”
“You’re not coming with them?” Palpatine asked, wideeyed.
“Iwill see you soon enough, Palpatine.”
“But the ship. The … evidence.”
“I’ll make arrangements for the ship’s disposal. No one will ever learn of this event, do you understand?” Palpatine nodded. “I trust you.” Plagueis returned the nod. “And Palpatine:
congratulations on becoming an emancipated being.”
Sleek as the deep-sea creature on which it was modeled,
the passenger ship Quantum Collosus plied the rarefied
currents of hyperspace. One of the finest vessels of its type,
the QC made weekly runs between Coruscant and Eriadu,
reverting at several worlds along the Hydian Way to take on
or discharge passengers. Draped in muted-green
shimmersilk, Plagueis had boarded at Corellia, but had waited until the ship made the jump to lightspeed before
riding a turbolift to the upper tier and announcing himself at
the entryway to the private cabin he had secured for Palpatine.
“You said soon,” Palpatine barked the moment the hatch
had pocketed itself in the bulkhead. “A standard week is
not soon.” Plagueis entered, removed his robe, and folded it over
the back of a chair. “I had business to attend to.” He
glanced over his shoulder at Palpatine. “Was I simply
supposed to drop everything in service to the predicament
you’ve gotten yourself into?” Speechless for a moment, Palpatine said, “Forgive me
for having allowed myself to believe that we were in this
together.”
“Together? How so?”
“Am I not your agent on Naboo?” Plagueis rocked his head from side to side. “You did
provide us with some useful information.” Palpatine studied him uncertainly. “I did more than that, Magister, and you’re well aware of it. You share as much
responsibility for what happened as I do.” Plagueis seated himself and crossed one leg over the
other knee. “Has it really been only a week? For you seem
greatly changed. Were the Chandrilan and Naboo
authorities so rough on you?” Palpatine continued to stare at him. “As you promised, where there is no evidence, there is no crime. They went so
far as to enlist the aid of salvagers and pirates in the
search, but came up empty-handed.” His look hardened.
“But it’s you who have changed. Despite the fact that you
saw this event in the making.” Plagueis motioned to himself. “Did I suspect that you and
your father might reach an impasse? Of course. It would
have been obvious to anyone. But you seem to be implying
that I somehow divined that the confrontation would end in
violence.” Palpatine considered it, then snorted in derision. “You’re
lying. You may as well have forced my hand.”
“What an odd way to put it,” Plagueis said. “But since
you’ve grasped the truth of it, I offer a confession. Yes, I
deliberately goaded you.”
“You came to Chandrila to make certain that my father’s
spies would see us together.”
“Once more, correct. You make me proud of you.” Palpatine ignored the flattery. “You used me.”
“There was no other way.” Palpatine shook his head in angry disbelief. “Was any of
the story about your siblings true?”
“Some of it. But that scarcely matters now. You asked for my help and I provided it. Your father attempted to thwart
you, and you acted of your own free will.”
“And by killing him I’ve rid you of an opponent.” Palpatine
paused. “My father was right about you. You are a
gangster.”
“And you are free and wealthy,” Plagueis said. “So what
now, young human? I continue to have great hopes for you,
but before I could tell you everything I needed you to be
free.”
“Free from what?”
“From fear of expressing your true nature.” Palpatine’s expression darkened. “You know nothing of my true nature.” He paced away from Plagueis, then
stopped and turned to him. “You never asked about the
killings.”
“I’ve never been one for grim details,” Plagueis said. “But
if you need to unburden yourself, do so.” Palpatine raised his clawed hands. “I executed them with
these! And with the power of my mind. I became a storm, Magister—a weapon strong enough to warp bulkheads and
hurl bodies across cabinspaces. Iwas death itself!” Plagueis sat tall in the chair, in genuine astonishment. He could see Palpatine now in all his dark glory. Anger
and murder had pulled down the walls he had raised
perhaps since infancy to safeguard his secret. But there was no concealing it now: the Force was powerful in him!
Bottled up for seventeen standard years, his innate power
had finally burst forth and could never again be stoppered. All the years of repression, guiltless crimes, raw emotion
bubbling forth, toxic to any who dared touch or taste it. But
beneath his anger lurked a subtle enemy: apprehension. Newly reborn, he was at great risk. But only because he
didn’t realize just how powerful he was or how
extraordinarily powerful he could become. He would need
help to complete his self-destruction. He would need help
rebuilding those walls, to keep from being discovered. Oh, what a cautious taming he would require! Plagueis
thought. But what an ally he might make. What an ally!
“I’m not sure I know what to think of this, Palpatine,” he
said at last. “Have you always had such powers?” Color had drained from Palpatine’s face, and his legs were shaking. “I’ve always known I was capable of
summoning them.” Plagueis rose from the chair and approached him warily.
“Here is where the path bifurcates, young human. Here and
now you need to decide whether to disavow your power or
to venture courageously and scrupulously into the depths of
truth—no matter the consequences.” He resisted an urge to grasp Palpatine by the shoulder,
and instead paced away from him. “You could devote the
rest of your life to trying to make sense of this power, this
gift,” he said, without looking back. “Or you could consider
a different option.” He swung to face Palpatine. “It’s a dark
path into a trackless wilderness from which few return. Not without a guide, at any rate. But it is also the shortest,
quickest route between today and tomorrow.” Plagueis realized that he was taking a great gamble, but
there was no turning back from it. The dark side had
brought them together, and it would be the will of the dark
side that decided whether Palpatine became his
apprentice.
“In your studies,” he said carefully, “have you ever learned
of the Sith?” Palpatine blinked, as if preoccupied. “A Jedi sect, weren’t they? The result of a kind of family feud.”
“Yes, yes, in some ways just that. But more: the Sith are
the prodigal offspring, destined to return and overthrow the
Jedi.” Palpatine cut his eyes to Plagueis. “The Sith are
considered to be evil.”
“Evil?” Plagueis repeated. “What is that? Moments ago
you defined yourself as a storm. You said you were death
itself. Are you evil, then, or are you simply stronger and more awake than others? Who gives more shape to
sentient history: the good, who adhere to the tried and true,
or those who seek to rouse beings from their stupor and
lead them to glory? A storm you are, but a much-needed
one, to wash away the old and complacent and prune the
galaxy of deadweight.” Palpatine’s lip curled in anger and menace. “Is this the wisdom you offer—the tenets of some arcane cult?”
“The test of its value is whether you can live by it, Palpatine.”
“If I had wanted that Iwould have forced my parents years
ago to surrender me to the Jedi Order instead of
transferring me from school to private school.” Plagueis planted his hands on his hips and laughed without mirth. “And of what possible use do you think a
person of your nature would be to the Jedi Order? You’re
heartless, ambitious, arrogant, insidious, and without
shame or empathy. More, you’re a murderer.” He held
Palpatine’s hooded gaze and watched the youth’s hands
clench in fists of rage. “Careful, boy,” he said after a moment. “You are not the only being in this plush stateroom
with the power to kill.” Palpatine’s eyes opened wide and he took a step back.
“I can sense it …” Plagueis grew deliberately haughty. “What you sense is a
fraction of what I can bring to bear.” Palpatine appeared suitably chastened. “Might I be of
some use to the Sith?”
“Possibly,” Plagueis said. “Perhaps even likely. But we would have to wait and see.”
“Where are the Sith?” Plagueis allowed a smile. “Just now there is only one. Unless, of course, it is your will to join me.” Palpatine nodded. “I do wish to join you.”
“Then kneel before me and pledge that it is your will to
join your destiny forever with the Order of the Sith Lords.” Palpatine stared at the floor, then genuflected, uttering, “It
is my will to join my destiny forever with the Order of the Sith
Lords.” Plagueis extended his left hand to touch him on the
crown of the head. “Then it is done. From this day forward,
the truth of you, now and forever more, will be Sidious.” When Palpatine stood, Plagueis took him by the
shoulders.
“In time you will come to understand that you are one with
the dark side of the Force, and that your power is beyond
contradiction. But just now, and until I tell you differently,
abiding submission is your only road to salvation.”
12: SEDUCED BY THE DARK SIDE OF
THE FORCE
The obedient orphan stood shivering in swirling snow. Around him rose ice pinnacles shaped like jagged teeth; a
glacial wind howled through them. Plagueis stood nearby,
flakes of snow and ice gyrating around him but never
lighting on him, melting before they reached him. Unlike Sidious, who was outfitted in a thin enviro-suit, the Sith Lord was wearing only a cloak, narrow trousers, and a skullcap.
“It was on this world that I first became aware of my
Force powers and dark impulses,” he said, loudly enough
to be heard over the wind. “Compared with temperate Muunilinst, Mygeeto is ruthless and uncompromising, but I
learned to adapt to its harsh conditions, and before the age
of eight I could venture out into the most violent storm
dressed in less than you wear now. But I haven’t brought
you here to acquaint you with my past, Sidious. If you were
of a species acclimatized to these conditions, I would have
brought you instead to a desert world. If you were an
aquatic being, I would have stranded you on dry land. The
divide between the ways of the Force as practiced by the Sith and the Jedi has less to do with the distinction
between darkness or the presence of light than between—
in your case—naked cold and the presence of warmth. Between distress and comfort, entropy and predictability.” Plagueis paused to regard Sidious. “Your blood is close
to frozen. Too much time here and you will die. That is what
you will think at the beginning, when the dark side has
sniffed you out and sidled up to you. You will think: I will die;
the dark side will kill me. And it’s true, you will die, but only
to be reborn. You must take deeply into yourself the
knowledge of what it means to be removed; you must feel it
in the marrow of your bones, because it will ever be thus.” Plagueis laughed shortly. “Perhaps I sound like some
professor of philosophy in that fine college of yours in
Theed. But this isn’t a lecture, nor should you think of it as
physical conditioning. We need instead to prepare you for what awaits you should the dark side opt to take an interest
in you. The comingling of fear and joy; of being humbled
and empowered; of being escalated while at the same time
used, as if an instrument. To be singled out and yet
subsumed by an overarching grandness.” A predatory look came to his wan face as he advanced
on Sidious.
“Now tell me again, apprentice. And in greater detail.” Once more Sidious allowed his memories to unfold, and
he relived the crime—the event, as he had at last come to
think of it. His father’s limp and bloodied body. The
smashed skulls of the bodyguards. His hands clenched
around his mother’s slender throat—but not really, only in
his mind, strangling her with his thoughts. The lifeless forms
of his siblings, slumped here and there … In telling and
retelling it, in reliving it, he had finally gained a kind of
authority over it, the ability to see the event merely for what
it was, without emotion, without judgment. It was as if the
event had occurred years rather than months earlier, and as
if someone else had authored the crime. When that
defining moment had come, a transforming power had
curled up inside him, as dark as space without stars, born
of hated and fear but one he could now draw upon.
“Very good,” Plagueis said, after the recounted tale had
forced itself between Sidious’s blue and trembling lips. “I
can feel your remove, and sense your increasing power.” He continued to appraise Sidious while the snow whirled
between them. “I can’t have your will tempered by feelings
of regret or compassion. You were brought into being to
lead. Therefore you must see every living thing as nothing more than a tool to elevate you, to move you to your
destined place. This is our galaxy, Sidious, our reality.
“In this pitiless place, your power is forged.
“Propelled by fear or hatred, even a Jedi can pass
beyond the constraints of the Order’s teachings and
discover power of a more profound sort. But no Jedi who
arrives at that place, who has risen above his or her
allegiance to peace and justice, who kills in anger or out of
desire, can lay real claim to the dark side of the Force.
Their attempts to convince themselves that they fell to the
dark side, or that the dark side compelled their actions, are
nothing more than pitiful rationalizations. That is why the Sith embrace the dark from the start, focusing on the
acquistion of power. We make no excuses. The actions of
a Sith begin from the self and flow outward. We stalk the
Force like hunters, rather than surrender like prey to its
enigmatic whims.”
“I understand, Master,” Sidious managed in a stuttering
voice. Plagueis showed him a malevolent smile. “I once said as much to my Master, when in fact I understood nothing. I merely wanted to put an end to the pain.” In a blur of motion,
he tore open the front of Sidious’s enviro-suit. “I am your
torturer, Sidious. Soon you will make every effort to
appease me, and with each lie you tell, with each attempt
you make to reverse our roles, you will make yourself as
shiny as an aurodium coin to the dark side.
“So appease me, Sidious. Tell me again how you killed
them.”
Sidious steadied himself on the scree slope, the jagged
stones beneath his bloody palms, elbows and knees
quivering, as if yearning to immerse themselves in the frigid waters of the crystalline blue lake at the base of the near
sheer incline. A few meters above sat Plagueis, crosslegged atop a flat-topped outcropping, his back turned to Sidious and his gaze seemingly fixed on the blinding
snowfields that blanketed the mountain’s summit.
“If you don’t already want to murder me, you will before
I’m through with you,” he was saying. “The urge to kill one’s
superior is intrinsic to the nature of our enterprise. My
unassailable strength gives rise to your envy; my wisdom
fuels your desire; my achievements incite your craving.
Thus has it been for one thousand years, and so it must
endure until I’ve guided you to parity. Then, Sidious, we must do our best to sabotage the dynamic Darth Bane set
in motion, because we will need each other if we’re to
realize our ultimate goals. In the end there can be no
secrets between us; no jealousy or mistrust. From us the
future of the Sith will fountain, and the diverse beings of the
galaxy will be better for it. Until then, however, you must
strive; you must demonstrate your worthiness, not merely to me but to the dark side. You must take the hatred you feel
for me and transform it into power—the power to
overcome, to forbid anything from standing in your path, to
surmount whatever obstacle the dark side designs to test
you.” Scarcely listening, Sidious moved with utmost care, his
hands and knees seeking firm purchase on the stones. For weeks Darth Plagueis had deprived him of sleep, food, and water. Now if only he could reach the Muun, his thirst would
be slaked, his hunger sated, his contusions healed. Countless times the broad expanse of rock debris had
slipped and he’d had to ride the slide almost to the shore of
the lake, tumbling, surfing on his front and back, abrading
his ruddy skin, bruising nearly every part of himself. Only to
have to pick his way back to the top. Seething in silence, he managed to scale a meter more
of the slope, calling on the Force to ensure his balance, to
render him weightless.
“Fool,” Plagueis derided him. “Success doesn’t come
from summoning help from the Force, but from taking
control of it and generating the power from within yourself.” He sighed theatrically. “Still, I’m somewhat encouraged by
the progress you’ve made. Mere centimeters from me now,
almost within arm’s reach. Soon I’ll be able to feel your
breath on my neck and perceive the heat of your rage—
your desire to kill me, as if by doing so, you could lay claim
to the authority I embody.” He paused but didn’t move, much less glance over his shoulder. “You want to strangle me, like you did your poor, misunderstood mother; tear me
limb from limb as you did the bodyguards. Fair enough. But
to do so you will have to make a greater effort, Apprentice.”
Like a feline, Sidious leapt from the scree, his curled
fingers aimed for Plagueis. But instead of vising
themselves around the Muun’s slender neck, his hands went through thin air and met each other, leaving him to
collapse face-first atop the outcropping. Off to one side he
heard his Master laugh in scorn. Either Plagueis had moved faster than Sidious could discern or, worse yet, he
had never been there to begin with.
“So easily tricked,” Plagueis said, confirming the latter.
“You waste my time. More of this and the dark side will
never take an interest in you.” Sidious whirled, flinging himself at Plagueis, only to meet
an irresistible force and be hurled backward to the frozen
ground.
The Muun’s shadow fell over him. Arms folded across his
chest, Plagueis loomed.
“If you’re to succeed in inhabiting both realms, Sidious—
the profane world and that of the Force—you need to learn
how to use guile to your advantage, and to recognize when
others are employing it.” Without extending a hand, Plagueis tugged him to his feet. “If you can survive a few more days without sustenance or rest, I may be inclined to
teach you.”
Clawing his way across the tundra, his body rashed with
lightsaber burns, Sidious looked up at Plagueis,
imploringly.
“How much longer, Master?” Plagueis deactivated his weapon’s crimson blade and
scowled. “Perhaps a moment, perhaps an eternity. Stop
thinking of the future, and anchor yourself in the present. A
Sith apprentice is the antithesis of a Jedi youngling
nurtured in the Temple, battling a floating remote with a
training lightsaber. A Sith acquaints himself with pain from
the start, and inflicts it, as well. A Sith goes for the throat,
just as you did on your family’s starship.” Sidious continued to gaze at him. “I meant, how much
longer will it take me to learn?”
The Muun sized him up with a look. “Hard to tell. Humans
are their own worst enemies. Your body isn’t meant to withstand real punishment. It is easily injured and slow to
heal. Your olfactory and tactile senses are relatively acute,
but your auditory and visual senses are extremely limited.”
“Have I no strengths, Master?” Plagueis dropped to one knee in front of him. “You have
the Force, apprentice, and the talent to lead. More, you
have the bloodlust of a serial killer, though we need to hold
that in reserve unless violence serves some extraordinary
purpose. We are not butchers, Sidious, like some past Sith
Lords. We are architects of the future.” Sidious swallowed and found his voice. “How long?”
Plagueis stood, reigniting the lightsaber as he did so.
“Not a standard day sooner than a decade.”

13: RIDERS ON THE STORM
In mad pursuit of their prey and all but taking flight, the two Sith, Master and apprentice for eleven years now, bounded
across the grassy terrain, their short capes snapping
behind them, vibroblades clenched in their hands and bare
forearms flecked with gore; blood caked in the human’s
long hair and dried on the Muun’s hairless brow. Twisting
and swirling around them was a herd of agile, long-necked
quadrupeds with brown-and-black-striped fur; identical and moving as if possessed of a single mind, leaping at the
same instant, reversing direction, cycloning gregariously
over the short-napped savanna.
“This is not a chase,” Plagueis said as he ran, “this is a
summoning. You need to get behind the eyes of your target
and become the object of its desire. The same holds true when you summon the Force: you must make yourself
desirable, fascinating, addictive, and whatever power you
need will be at your command.” Blended into the herd, the animal Sidious had fixed his
sight on would have been indistinguishable to normal
beings. But Sidious had the animal in his mind and was
now looking through its eyes, one with it. Alongside him
suddenly, the creature seemed to intuit its end and tipped
its head to one side to expose its muscular neck. The moment the vibroblade stuck, the creature’s eyes rolled
back and grew opaque; hot blood spurted but quickly
ceased to flow—the Force departing, and Sidious drawing
its power deep into himself.
“Now another one,” Plagueis said in a congratulatory
tone. “And another one after that.” Sidious felt himself shoved into motion, as if by a galeforce wind.
“Feel the power of the dark side flow through you,” Plagueis added from behind him. “We serve nature’s
purpose by culling the herd, and our own by sharpening our
skills. We are the predatory swarm!”
The low-gravity planet was known then as Buoyant, its
bewildering jumble of flora and fauna the result of an
experiment by a long-forgotten species that had tweaked
the atmosphere, set the world spinning faster than nature
had intended, and encouraged the growth of lush forests
and expansive grasslands. The still-functioning machines of
the ancients dotted the landscape, and millennia later the
animals they had imported were thriving. Nothing moved
slowly or ponderously on rapidly spinning Buoyant, even
day and night, or the storms that scrubbed the atmosphere with violent regularity. Elsewhere on the planet—in dense forests, in arid wastes, beneath the waves of inland seas—the two Sith
had already taken the lives of countless creatures: culling,
sharpening, marinating themselves in a miasma of dark
side energy. Kilometers from where the quadruped hunt had
commenced, Plagueis and Sidious sat under the enormous
canopy of a tree whose trunk was wide enough to engulf a
landspeeder, and whose thick branches were burdened with flowering parasitic plants. Breathing hard and
drenched in sweat, they rested in silence as clouds of
eager insects gathered around them. The pulse-beats of
the Muun’s trio of hearts were visible beneath his
translucent skin, and his clear eyes tracked the slaloming movements of the escaping herd.
“Few of my people are aware of just how wealthy I am,”
he said at last, “since most of my riches derive from
activities that have nothing to do with the ordinary business
of finance. For many years my peers wondered why I chose
to remain unwed, and ultimately reached the conclusion that
I was in essence married to my work, without realizing how
right they were. Except that my real bride is the dark side of
the Force. What the ancients called Bogan, as separate
from Ashla.
“Even the Jedi understand that there is no profit in
partnering with a being who lacks the ability to understand what it means to be in the grip of the Force, and so the Order restricts marriage by dogma, in service, so the Jedi
say, to the purity of Ashla.
“But Ashla is a perversion,” he went on, “for the dark has
always preceded the light. The original idea was to capture
the power of the Force and make it subservient to the will of
sentient life. The ancients—the Celestials, the Rakata—
didn’t pronounce judgment on their works. They moved
planets, organized star systems, conjured dark side
devices like the Star Forge as they saw fit. If millions died
in the process, so be it. The lives of most beings are of
small consequence. The Jedi have failed to understand
this. They are so busy saving lives and striving to keep the
powers of the Force in balance that they have lost sight of
the fact that sentient life is meant to evolve, not simply
languish in contented stasis.” He paused to glance at Sidious. “No doubt the texts I’ve
provided contain references to the so-called Potentium
theory—that light and dark depend on the intention of the
user. This is yet another perversion of the truth perpetrated
by those who would keep us shackled to the Force. The
power of water and the power of fire are entirely different. Glaciers and volcanoes both have the potential to transform
landscapes, but one does so by burying what lies beneath, where the other spews forth new terrain. The Sith are not
placid stars but singularities. Rather than burn with muted
purpose, we warp space and time to twist the galaxy to our
own design.
“To become one of grandiloquent power requires more
than mere compliance; what’s needed is obstinacy and
tenacity. That’s why you must always be receptive to the
currents of the dark side, because no matter how nimble
you are, or think you are, the Force will show you no pity.As
you’ve learned, your body sleeps but your mind is never at
rest.” Getting to his feet, Plagueis extended his long arms in
front of him and loosed a storm of Force lightning that
crackled over the landscape, igniting fires in the grass.
“A Jedi sufficiently strong in the Force can be trained to
produce a facsimile, but not true Sith lightning, which,
unabated, has the power not only to incapacitate or kill, but
to physically transform the victim. Force lightning requires
strength of a sort only a Sith can command because we
accept consequence and reject compassion. To do so
requires a thirst for power that is not easily satisfied. The
Force tries to resist the callings of ravenous spirits;
therefore it must be broken and made a beast of burden. It
must be made to answer to one’s will.
“But the Force cannot be treated deferentially,” he added
as a few final tendrils sparked from his fingertips. “In order
to summon and use lightning properly, you will someday
have to be on the receiving end of its power, as a means of
taking the energy inside yourself.” Sidious watched the last of the brush fires burn out, then
said, “Will I eventually be physically transformed?”
“Into some aged, pale-skinned, raspy-voiced, yelloweyed monster, you mean. Such as the one you see before
you.” Plagueis gestured to himself, then lowered himself to
the ground. “Surely you are acquainted with the lore: King
Ommin of Onderon, Darths Sion and Nihilus. But whether it will happen to you, I can’t say. Know this, though, Sidious,
that the power of the dark side does not debilitate the
practitioner as much as it debilitates those who lack it.” He
grinned with evil purpose. “The power of the dark side is an
illness no true Sith would wish to be cured of.”
On Hypori they were the prey, standing back-to-back in
their black zeyd-cloth hooded robes at the center of
concentric rings of droids, retrofitted by Baktoid Armor to
function as combat automata. Two hundred programmed
assailants—bipedal, treaded, some levitated by antigrav
generators—armed with a variety of weapons, ranging from
hand blasters to short-barreled burst-rifles. Plagueis hadn’t
allowed his young apprentice to wield a lightsaber until a
few years earlier, but Sidious was brandishing one now,
self-constructed of phrik alloy and aurodium, and powered
by a synthetic crystal. Made for delicate, long-fingered
hands—as much a work of art as a weapon—the lightsaber
thrummed as he waved the blade from side to side in front
of him.
“Every weapon, manufactured by whatever species, has
its own properties and peculiarities,” Plagueis was saying,
his own blade angled toward the ferrocrete floor of the
battledome’s fabricated cityscape, as if to light a fuse.
“Range, penetrating power, refresh rate … In some
instances your life might depend on your ability to focus on
the weapon rather than on the wielder. You must train
yourself to identify a weapon instantly—whether it’s a
product of BlasTech or Merr-Sonn, Tenloss or Prax—so
that you will know where to position yourself, and the
several ways to best deflect a well-aimed bolt.” Plagueis put his words into action as the first ring of
droids began to converge on them, staggering the attack
and triggering bursts at random. Orbiting Sidious, the Muun’s blade warded off every volley, returning the bolts to
their sources, or deflecting them into the façades of the faux
buildings surrounding them or into other droids. At other
times Plagueis made no attempt to redirect the attacks, but
simply twisted and torqued his rangy body, allowing the
bolts to miss him by centimeters. Around the two Sith, the
automata collapsed one after the next, gushing lubricants
from holed reservoirs or exploding in a hail of alloy parts,
until all were heaped on the ferrocrete floor.
“The next ring is yours,” Plagueis said. Rugged, uninhabited Hypori belonged to the Techno Union, whose Skakoan foreman, Wat Tambor, owed his
seat in the Republic Senate to Damask Holdings. In
exchange, the bionic humanoid had made Hypori available
as a training ground for members of the Echani Sun Guard
and provided the necessary battle droids. Calling in
another favor, Hego Damask had requested a private
session in the fabricated cityscape, so that Plagueis and
his apprentice could be free to employ lightsabers—though
only for the purpose of deflecting bolts rather than
dismemberment or penetration. When it came Sidious’s turn to demonstrate his skill, Plagueis spoke continuously from behind him, adding
distraction to the distinct possibility of inadvertent
disintegration.
“A being trained in the killing arts doesn’t wait for you to
acquire him as a target, or establish him or herself as an
opponent, as if in some martial arts contest. Your reactions must be instantaneous and nothing less than lethal, for you
are a Sith Lord, and will be marked for death.”
The droids continued to converge, ring after ring of them,
until the floor was piled high with smoking husks. Plagueis
issued a voice command that brought the onslaught to an
abrupt end and deactivated his lightsaber. The pinging of
cooling weapons, the hiss of escaping gas, the unsteady whir of failing servomotors punctuated the sudden silence.
Alloy limbs spasmed and photoreceptors winked out,
surrendering their eerie glow. The recycled air was rotten with the smell of fried circuitry.
“Feast your eyes on our handiwork,” Plagueis said,
gesturing broadly. Sidious switched off his weapon. “I see nothing but
ruined droids.”
Plagueis nodded. “Darth Bane advised: One day the Republic will fall and the Jedi will be wiped out. But that will not happen until we are ready to seize that power for
ourselves.”
“When?” Sidious said. “How will we know when the time
is right?”
“We are close to knowing. For a thousand years the Sith
have allowed themselves to be reduced to the stuff of
folklore. Since it serves our purposes we’ve done nothing
to counter the belief that we are perversions of the Jedi, evil mages, embodiments of hatred, rage, and bloodlust,
capable even of leaving the residue of our malefactions
and dastardly deeds in places of power.”
“Why have we not yet visited those places, Master—
instead of worlds like Buoyant and Hypori?” Darth Plagueis gazed at him. “You are impatient. You
see no value in learning about weapons or explosives,
Force suggestion or the healing arts. You hunger for power
of the sort you imagine is to be found on Korriban, Dromund Kaas, Zigoola. Then let me tell you what you’ll
encounter in those reliquaries: Jedi, treasure hunters, and
legends. Of course there are tombs in the Valley of the Dark Lords, but they have been plundered and now draw
only tourists. On Dxun, Yavin Four, Ziost, the same is true. If
it’s history that has caught your fancy, I can show you a
hundred worlds on which esoteric Sith symbols have been woven covertly into architecture and culture, and I can bore
you for years with tales of the exploits of Freedon Nadd, Belia Darzu, Darth Zannah, who is alleged to have
infiltrated the Jedi Temple, and of starships imbued with
Sith consciousness. Is that your wish, Sidious, to become
an academic?”
“Iwish only to learn, Master.”
“And so you will. But not from spurious sources. We are
not some cult like the Tetsu’s Sorcerers of Tund.
Descended from Darth Bane, we are the select few who
refuse to be carried by the Force and who carry it instead—
thirty in a millennium rather than the tens of thousands fit to
be Jedi. Any Sith can feign compassion and selfrighteousness and master the Jedi arts, but only one in a
thousand Jedi could ever become a Sith, for the dark side
is only for those who value self-determinism over all else
that existence offers. Only once in these past thousand
years has a Sith Lord strayed into the light, and one day I will tell you that tale. But for now, take to heart the fact that
Bane’s Rule of Two was at the start our saving grace,
putting an end to the internecine strife that allowed the Jedi
Order to gain the upper hand. Part of our ongoing task will
be to hunt down and eliminate any Sith pretenders who
pose a threat to our ultimate goals.” Sidious remained silent for a long moment. “Am I to be
equally distrustful of the lessons contained in Sith
Holocrons?”
“Not distrustful,” Plagueis said gravely. “But holocrons
contain knowledge specific and idiosyncratic to each Sith who constructed them. Real knowledge is passed by
Master to apprentice in sessions such as this, where
nothing is codified or recorded—diluted—and thus it
cannot be forgotten. There will come a time when you may wish to consult the holocrons of past Masters, but until then
you would do better not to be influenced by them. You must
discover the dark side in your own way, and perfect your
power in your own fashion. All I can do in the meantime is
help to keep you from losing your way while we hide in plain
sight from the prying eyes of our enemies.”
“ ‘What celestial body is more luminous than a
singularity,’ ” Sidious recited, “ ‘hiding in plain sight but more powerful than all?’ ” Plagueis grinned. “You are quoting DarthGuile.”
“He goes on to compare the Sith to a rogue or malignant
cell, too small to be discovered by scans or other
techniques, but capable of spreading silently and lethally
through a system. Initially the victim simply doesn’t feel
right, then falls ill, and ultimately succumbs.” Plagueis locked eyes with him. “Consider the mind-set of
an anarchist who plans to sacrifice himself for a cause. For
the weeks, months, possibly years leading up to the day he
straps a thermal detonator to his chest and executes his
task, he has lived in and been strengthened by the secret
he carries, knowing the toll his act will take. So it has been
for the Sith, residing in a secret, sacred place of knowledge
for one thousand years, and knowing the toll our acts will
take. This is power, Sidious. Where the Jedi, by contrast,
are like beings who, as they move among the healthy, keep
secret the fact that they are dying of a terminal illness.
“B ut true power needn’t bear claws or fangs, or
announce itself with snarls and throaty barks, Sidious. It can
subdue with manacles of shimmersilk, purposeful
charisma, and political astuteness.”
* * *
The location of the planet known to the Sith as Kursid had
been expunged from Republic records in distant times, and
for the past six hundred years had been reserved for use as
a place of spectacle. Masters and apprentices of the Bane
lineage had visited with enough regularity that a cult had
come into being in that part of the world based on the
periodic return of the sky visitors. The Sith hadn’t bothered
to investigate what Kursid’s indigenous humanoids thought
about the visits—whether in their belief systems the Sith were regarded as the equivalent of deities or demons—
since it was unlikely that the primitives had yet so much as
named their world. However, visiting as apprentice and—
more often than not—as Master, each Sith Lord had
remarked on the slow advancement of Kursid’s civilization. How, on the early visits, the primitives had defended
themselves with wooden war clubs and smooth rocks
hurled from slings. Two hundred years later, many of the
small settlements had grown to become cities or
ceremonial centers built of hewn stone, with social classes
of rulers and priests, merchants and warriors. Gradually the
cities had become ringed with ranged weapons of a crude
sort, and magical guardian symbols had been emblazoned
on the sloping sides of defensive walls. At some point
previous to Darth Tenebrous’s visit as an apprentice,
replicas of the Sith ships had been constructed in the
center of the arid plateau that served as a battleground,
and enormous totemic figures—visible only from above—
had been outlined by removing tens of thousands of fistsized volcanic stones that covered the ground. On Plagueis’s first visit, some fifty years earlier, the warriors he
and Tenebrous faced had been armed with longbows and metal-tipped lances.
That the Sith had never demanded anything other than
battle hadn’t kept the primitives from attempting to adopt a
policy of appeasement, leaving at the ships’ perpetual
landing site foodstuffs, sacrificial victims, and works of what
they considered art, forged of materials they held precious
or sacred. But the Sith had simply ignored the offerings, waiting instead on the stony plain for the primitives to
deploy their warriors, as the primitives did now with
Plagueis and Sidious waiting. Announcing their arrival with low runs over the city, they
had set the ship down and waited for six days, while the mournful calls of breath-driven horns had disturbed the dry
silences, and groups of primitives had flocked in to gather
on the hillsides that overlooked the battleground.
“Do you recall what Darth Bane said regarding the killing
of innocents?” Plagueis had asked.
“Our mission,” Sidious paraphrased, “is not to bring
death on all those unfit to live. All we do must serve our true
purpose—the preservation of our Order and the survival of
the Sith. We must work to grow our power, and to
accomplish that we will need to interact with individuals of many species across many worlds. Eventually word of our
existence will reach the ears of the Jedi.”
